
                               1 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 30, 2004

SNP needs Sir Sean's cash, not his cachet

BYLINE: ALLAN MASSIE

SECTION: ED_SC1_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 823 words


WE ran a rather sad story on Monday. Under the headline 'Sean boosts Sturgeon's
power bid', it reported a meeting between 'screen legend Sir Sean Connery' and
Nicola Sturgeon, one of the candidates in the SNP leadership election.

'It will be seen,' the reporter wrote, 'as an indication of staunch Nationalist
Sir Sean's preferred candidate... as he did not meet Roseanna Cunningham, Miss
Sturgeon's rival...' I am sure he is right, and goodness, how sad to think that
he is.

Connery is often described as 'the greatest living Scot' , which i s absurd,
because there is no means of comparing greatness in one form and another.

It is more accurate to say he is the most celebrated of living Scots, in as much
as he is more likely to be recognised globally than any of his compatriots.

He is a celebrity because he is a successful film star, more particularly
because he was the first and, in many people's opinion the best, James Bond even
if Bond' s creator, Ian Fleming thought him illsuited to the role.

Like most film stars he has made many more bad or simply forgettable films than
good and memorable ones. But this doesn' t matter. He is unquestionably an
A-list celebrity.

Besides being that, he is indeed a committed Scottish Nationalist, and one who
has given generously to the party. Moreover, he has also given generously to
charity, and the educational trust he established long ago has benefited many
young people here in Scotland.

So it's not surprising that the SNP parades him whenever possible and regards
him as an asset. To some extent doubtless he is. His presence at any SNP
gathering arouses enthusiasm among the faithful.

Beyond that however, I think the Nationalists are mistaken in supposing his
championing of their cause does them any good at all, and this for two reasons,
the first general, the second particular.

First then, though politicians love to surround themselves with celebrities rock
stars, film stars, top footballers, etc there is very little evidence, if any,
that this impresses the general public.

When, for instance, Tony Blair, in the first flush of his Premiership, invited
the Gallagher brothers of Oasis to a Downing Street party, the response wasn't
'hey, that's cool,' but rather 'what a prat'.

To take a more recent example, when the UKIP proudly announced that Joan Collins
was backing them, does anyone suppose people went round saying: 'I was doubtful
about voting UKIP, but since Joanie is with them, they're going to get my vote'?

The idea is absurd.

Second, the particular reason: nobody doubts Connery's patriotism, (though one
does wonder if a truly committed Scottish Nationalist should accept a knighthood
from the British state his party seeks to dismantle), but it is patriotism
usually expressed at a distance.

There is truth in the gibe that Sir Sean will do anything for Scotland except
come to live here. For many years he came here mostly to play golf at St
Andrews, where he is a member of the R&A.

Nobody would be entitled to resent this, or to reproach him for his
disinclination to live in Scotland if it wasn't for the persistence with which
he tells us how we should vote, and that it is our patriotic duty to break up
the United Kingdom. This is resented by a great many people because we know very
well that however badly or disagreeably an independent Scotland might do, one
person who certainly wouldn't suffer is Sir Sean Connery himself.

It's quite possible, of course, that the suggestion that Sir Sean is in Nicola
Sturgeon's camp will persuade a sufficient number of the SNP's 8,000 members
that she should be their next leader.

But if so, what a sad commentary on their state of mind. No doubt the party
needs his financial support, but that's all it needs from him.

Where the uncommitted are concerned, Sir Sean is more of an electoral liability
than an asset.

Jack's private army

A WELCOME headline in contrast: ' Public sector too big, admits McConnell'.

This sounded encouraging. After all, most job creation in Scotland since 1997
has been in the public sector, where employees are paid from taxes collected
from the rest of us who work hard to enable councils to employ 'outreach
co-ordinators' and those charged with ' implementing strategies' etc.

So the notion that Mr McConnell intended to get rid of such non-jobs and cut the
bureaucracy down to size seemed a happy one.

Closer reading, however, reveals that he has no such intention.

'We need,' he told a conference organised by the Fraser of Allander Institute,
'to rebalance Scotland's economy not by shrinking the public sector but by
growing the private sector.' This reminds me of the Labour minister almost half
a century ago whose contribution to the debate about grammar schools and
comprehensive schools was: 'We must see to it that everyone enjoys a
comprehensive grammar school education'.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               2 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 30, 2004

LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 35 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk and his UKIP associates have pulled a fast one by saying they
want out of the EU yet are still pocketing their salaries. Old Permatan and his
pals are phoneys.

P.SHARKEY, Liverpool.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                               3 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 30, 2004

NOW IS THE TIME TO END OUR UNHAPPY EUROPEAN UNION

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 159 words


ERIC Goodyer is mistaken in thinking that most of us want to remain in the EU ("
Ukip is wrong - most of us want to be in Europe", Letters, June 29).

Ukip did remarkably well in the recent elections, especially considering it is
basically a singleissue party and such parties normally fare extremely badly.

He is also mistaken in thinking that the EU is the only way to get the nations
of Europe to co-operate - rather the opposite.

The EU is a corrupt, selfperpetuating and inept bureaucracy and there is no
reason to believe it will get other than worse.

Like many a bad marriage, we will get on better with Europe once we are no
longer tied to it.

Also, as net contributors to the European Union, we will be financially better
off.

Like the old League of Nations, it is only a matter of time before the EU
disintegrates and it would be better for us if we were free of it before that
happens.

Roger Taylor, Meols, Wirral

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               4 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 30, 2004

Comment & Analysis: We can't back a yes vote

BYLINE: Derek Simpson and Tony Woodley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 785 words


Battle lines are being drawn ahead of a referendum on the European Union
constitution. How bizarre, then, that the government has started the campaign by
doing everything possible to demobilise potential support for a yes vote. In the
spirit of Margaret Thatcher and her handbag-wielding opt-outs, the prime
minister has chosen to make his pro-constitution pitch on the premise of
rejecting any and every EU initiative that might improve the lot of British
workers.

In so doing, he is making it impossible for trade unions to support a yes vote
in the referendum. At a stroke, the government is undoing 15 years of broad
labour-movement backing for the EU because of its progressive social dimension.
By choosing instead to appease the Eurosceptic right and win cheap applause from
the CBI, ministers have driven a coach and horses through any coalition of
support for the constitution they might have been hoping to assemble.

We are not opposed to the EU in principle, and we are bitterly opposed to the
anti-Europe xenophobia of Ukip and many Tories. But a large part of the argument
for European integration has been that it can help raise up to a civilised level
the wretched state of social and employment rights in Britain.

The prime minister has now pledged to fight against UK workers securing any new
protections through the EU's charter of fundamental rights, following similar
remarks made by Jack Straw to the CBI.

Trade unions are in business to secure new rights and protections for working
people. We cannot turn a deaf ear to the government's determination to leave
British workers as second-class citizens in Europe, or campaign for the
constitution on the basis of resisting any improvement in British labour law.
This policy is about making British workers easier to exploit, easier to ignore
and easier to sack than those anywhere else within the EU.

The government has tried to block workers' rights to consultation, to ensure
opt-outs from directives to limit working hours and to thwart rights for
temporary and agency workers - most of them women. As a result, British
employees work longer hours, with greater job uncertainty and a bleaker pensions
future than those elsewhere in Europe. Without equal treatment - including
equalising redundancy payments - workers here will also be cheaper to lay off
whenever production is rationalised on a Europe-wide basis by a transnational
company.

Now the prime minister, who has boasted of Britain having the strictest
anti-union laws in Europe, wants to ensure that the EU constitution does nothing
to level Britain's heavily tilted playing field. New Labour says it is acting in
the interests of greater "flexibility", but the productivity of German and
French workers remains higher than the British, and both France and Germany
attract more inward investment than the UK, so it's fair to say that the
European social model is no barrier to efficiency or growth. In fact, greater
worker protection is good for business and boosts productivity.

It seems that the government only wants the EU for the free trade zone. As far
as workers' rights are concerned, it wants to push ahead with the
Americanisation of the labour market. The US model for raising productivity is
to make workers work longer hours for less money. Yet in recent years, French
productivity has risen as fast as in the US, despite French workers enjoying
rights this government is so determined to deny us here.

Opposing the best aspects of the EU is no way to sell the constitution to the
public. It is no way to paint an attractive picture of Britain's place in
Europe. And it is no way to win union support for the forthcoming campaign.

It is also the wrong way to respond to the election results of June 10, with the
huge loss of support for Labour among working people. Crusading against a fairer
deal for British workers will further alienate Labour members and voters alike.
Backing the business-led agenda may go down well at a CBI conference, but it is
the way to lose not just a referendum on the EU constitution, but the general
election as well.

Nothing could be more calculated to antagonise and demotivate Labour activists
than the idea that the government wants it to remain acceptable for British
employees to continue to work themselves into the ground and be sacked at a
moment's notice.

The government has drawn its European red lines in the wrong place. We are not
at the heart of Europe, but in the wallet of big business and there are no votes
in that.

Derek Simpson is general secretary of Amicus; Tony Woodley is general secretary
of the Transport and General Workers' Union

comment@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 29, 2004, Tuesday

Broke UKIP skips by-elections

BYLINE: Edited by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 23

LENGTH: 123 words

UKIP's strong showing in the European elections - it captured 16.2 per cent of
the vote - boosted hopes that it could start to rival the main political parties
on a regular basis.

Sadly, though, Spy hears that the Europhobic party is now so strapped that it
can't even afford to contest the upcoming by-elections in Leicester and
Birmingham on July 15.

"To be honest, we chucked everything we had at the Euro elections," says one
party source. "That was very successful, but we're now a busted flush as a
result."

Nigel Farage, one of UKIP's 12 MEPs, refuses to see this as a problem. "We're
thinking more tactically now," he says bravely. "Our energies are currently
focused on the autumn referendums on regional assemblies."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               6 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 29, 2004

UKIP IS WRONG - MOST OF US WANT TO BE IN EUROPE

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 139 words


UKIP stood in the EU elections on a platform of total withdrawal from
partnership with our European colleagues - and lost!

Despite the party's small share of the vote, it seems to think it has a popular
mandate to wreck an organisation that has brought peace, prosperity and economic
growth to this country for the last 30 years.

The majority of the vote went to pro-European parties because the majority of
the population wants to w ork with our neighbours, not to isolate ourselves from
them.

We want a Europe within which nations work with each other, not against each
other.

That is why we need a written constitution - so that the basis of the
partnership is clearly stated and understood by all.

Would you buy a house, a car or even a washing machine without having a
contract?

Eric Goodyer, Leicester

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               7 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 29, 2004, Tuesday

OUR MAN IN PARIS: NEVER FELT MORE LIKE SINGING LES BLEUS

BYLINE: JOHN LICHFIELD True colours: can one support the French national team
and still claim to be English? AFP/Getty Images

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 752 words


I have a confession to make to the patriotic thought-police who dominate the
English media. I supported "les hommes de Sven Goran Eriksson" during the
England-France match in Euro 2004, but only until the 89th minute. When France
scored two lucky goals, I found myself overcome with joy at the victory of Les
Bleus, despite the presence of one of my favourite footballers, Paul Scholes, on
the England team. The thought of the deflation of the hysterically French-hating
English red-top newspapers was irresistibly funny.

In other words, I had failed the Norman Tebbit test. Or rather, I had passed it.

Mr Tebbit, one of the greatest political philosophers de nos jours, said that
the test of an acceptable immigrant was whether he or she supported the England
cricket team. After nearly eight years in France, have I - choc horreur - become
French?

Have I started to drive as if taking part in the Le Mans 24-hour race? Have I
started to elbow old ladies out of the way in bread shops? Have I started to
flirt with women who are not my wife? Have I started to ignore people whom I met
the day before? Have I started to dress effortlessly well?

After writing scores of pompous articles about the execrable French driving
record, now rapidly improving, I received a speeding fine through the post the
other day. No other Gallic symptoms yet, as far as I can tell.

I do, however, find myself increasingly estranged from the autistic England of
2004. I say England deliberately. Scotland and Wales, even the north of England,
seem to me to remain relatively sane.

I can make no connection with the humourless, nationalist hysteria surrounding
the European football championships; the mendacious, nationalist hysteria
surrounding the sensible-to-muddled EU constitution; the hypocritical,
nationalist hysteria surrounding Ukip (whose name should really be English
Independence Party or even South of England and East Midlands Independence
Party).

Margaret Thatcher once said that, in her lifetime, all the big problems had come
from Europe and all the solutions from America. Au contraire, it seems to me
that most of the things that have arrived in Britain for the better in the last
30 years - our new appreciation of food and wine, the outdoor cafe, Eric Cantona
and Thierry Henry - have come from Europe. Most of the things that have changed
Britain for the worse - the patriotic boorishness, the intolerance of other
viewpoints, the loss of red buses and red telephone boxes - can be traced to
America, Rupert Murdoch and Lady Thatcher.

Intelligent attempts to psychoanalyse the oddness of this new England, from a
Continental perspective, are rare. Christian Roudaut, a French radio, TV and
magazine correspondent in London since 1999, has a pretty good shot at it in a
new book, L'Entente Glaciale (Alban Editions, EUR19), published this week.

How strange, he suggests, that the "British Way of Life" should be defended so
stoutly by newspapers owned by foreign press barons, a viscount who lives mostly
in France, and a porn millionaire. (He might now add a pair of billionaire twins
who seldom leave the Channel Islands.)

Roudaut lands a few retaliatory, Continental blows on the supposed supremacy of
everything English. Like a 19th-century anthropologist visiting an exceptionally
uncouth tribe, he writes: "The town centres of all English cities bear the
stinking stigmata of nights of drunkenness... Women lift their elbows with the
same eagerness as men. English women dress with complete scorn for even the
lowest temperatures: their skirts well above the knee, their necklines plunging
to their navels, their backs exposed to the British drizzle."

Roudaut concludes, however, by recalling that Winston Churchill once suggested,
at the darkest moment of French and English history in June 1940, that the two
countries should be merged. He invites readers to imagine how such a country
might have turned out. "Frangleterre" would have been unbeatable: British trains
would be cheap and would run on time; the British would have learnt how to enjoy
sex; the French would have a sense of humour; the French would not be constantly
on strike; young English women might know how to dress.

On second thoughts, Roudaut concludes, the rest of the world should be grateful
that Churchill's idea was rejected (by the French). The fusion of French and
English superiority complexes would have created a nation of insufferable
arrogance: unbeatable, but unbearable.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 28, 2004, Monday

Tories fail to capitalise as Labour struggles

BYLINE: By Anthony King

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 703 words

THE European Parliament elections three weeks ago may have shaken both major
political parties but YouGov's monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph suggests
that on other issues the political landscape remains largely unchanged.

Labour is still in the doldrums, where the party has languished since last
summer. According to YouGov, Labour support has fallen from 42 per cent at the
time of the 2001 general election to 33 per cent now.

However, backing for the Conservatives, far from rising as it did during Michael
Howard's first few months as leader, has fallen back. Three years ago, the
Tories won 33 per cent of the popular vote. They are now on only 34 per cent -
an increase of one measly point in the 36 months since June 2001.

Although YouGov's findings are bad for Labour, they are worse for the
Conservatives. An Opposition party confronting a Prime Minister and Government
as ill-regarded in mid-term as the present ones ought to be in a commanding
position.

The Tories are not. Nothing in the local or European election results or
YouGov's latest data suggests a majority sees the Tories as a plausible
alternative government, let alone a desirable one.

Only the Lib-Dems and some minor parties, including UKIP, are making progress -
almost certainly as a result more of weariness with the major parties than of
their own appeal. The Liberal Democrats are holding their own on 21 per cent -
two points up on the general election.

The smaller parties have nearly doubled their support over the past two months,
largely as a result of a surge for the UK Independence Party.

Seven per cent say they would vote UKIP at an early general election - up hugely
since the start of the Euro election when they were on only one per cent but
less than half the support the party secured on June 10.

YouGov's findings have suggested all along that UKIP support was largely a
Europe-specific phenomenon and the results of the latest survey support that
view.

Given Britain's first-past-the-post electoral system, UKIP is most unlikely to
win seats at Westminster as well as Strasbourg. The most they can hope for is to
continue cutting into Tory support.

That said, millions who have no intention of voting UKIP nevertheless sympathise
with UKIP's Euro-sceptic stance. Almost half the whole electorate, 51 per cent
are "very pleased" or "fairly pleased" that the party did well in the Euro
elections.

However, of the 51 per cent pleased, only 43 per cent support UKIP's total
withdrawal from the EU. Most of the remainder are pleased because they want "to
slow down or halt the process of European integration" (41 per cent) or else
simply because they reckon the main political parties need to be "given a kick"
(15 per cent).

What stands out is the widespread sense that no prominent political leader or
party can be counted on to meet popular expectations.

Asked who they "most trust to take the right decisions concerning Britain's
future in Europe", 23 per cent say Michael Howard, 22 per cent Tony Blair and 14
per cent Charles Kennedy. But much the largest single group, 40 per cent, reply
either "None of those" (29 per cent) or "Don't know" (11 per cent).

Similarly, when people were asked which party they thought could best handle a
range of problems facing the country, the modal response was, in effect, "None
of the above".

Labour leads on unemployment, health, education and (just) public transport
while the Tories are ahead on law and order, Europe, taxation and immigration
and asylum. However, the category comprising some political party other than the
three main ones, "None of them" and "Don't know" never amounts to fewer than 27
per cent and in public transport amounts to 40 per cent.

In the case of four of the eight problems, one of the two major parties is
clearly ahead of the other but in the remaining four the "winners" are, so to
speak, the Party of the Despairing.

Against that background, it will be a minor miracle if turnout at the next
election is not even lower than last time and if the Lib-Dems and other minor
parties do not syphon off an even larger proportion of both major parties' vote.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               9 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 28, 2004, Monday

Howard urged to be as daring as Thatcher Duncan Smith tells Tory leader to focus
on the inner-city vote as poll shows party failing to recover from last general
election. Report by Benedict Brogan

BYLINE: By BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 599 words

MICHAEL HOWARD will be urged today by his predecessor as Tory leader to match
the daring shown by Margaret Thatcher in putting forward policies that will win
the votes of the inner-city poor.

The plea from Iain Duncan Smith comes as the latest YouGov poll for The Daily
Telegraph shows that Mr Howard has failed to deliver the breakthrough his party
needs to return to power.

The monthly survey on the state of the parties - which puts the Conservatives on
34 per cent, Labour on 33 per cent and the Liberal Democrats on 21 per cent -
suggests that the Tories have barely recovered from the last general election.
The latest poll is an improvement of just one point on the 33 per cent the party
scored in its 2001 election defeat.

Despite strict discipline imposed by Mr Howard on his MPs, there have been signs
of party nervousness about his failure to get the Tories past the 40 per cent
level it needs to stand a chance at the next election.

The poll's suggestion that 51 per cent of voters were pleased by the UK
Independence Party's success in the European elections will spark fears that it
may cause long-term damage to Tory support.

Last month Mr Howard was warned by Lord Tebbit, the former party chairman, not
to adopt a "bland, centrist, politically correct agenda" in an attempt to win
new voters.

Today Mr Howard will face calls from Mr Duncan Smith to go further by developing
policies aimed at the inner-city poor. The deposed Tory leader, who will launch
his new think tank, the Centre for Social Justice, will urge Mr Howard not to
look for votes by being "all things to all people".

He will urge Mr Howard to match the daring shown by Mrs Thatcher, who campaigned
for working-class votes by introducing the right to buy council houses, by
reaching "beyond the safety of familiar constituencies" because it was both
morally right and electorally advantageous to do so.

Mr Duncan Smith will say: "Nothing socially just will result from a renunciation
of conservative beliefs in the family, in zero tolerance of drugs, or in high
expectations of schoolchildren of every background.

"For too long the metropolitan establishment have announced and imposed policies
that look right but don't do right. The people who suffer most from
Westminster's political games are those who can least afford to. Politics has
become a source of despair for many of Britain's poorest communities." But
Conservative policies need to go beyond appealing to the inner cities, he will
say.

"Added to priorities on tax, crime and now, thankfully, public services must be
deeper commitments to social justice, to the environment and to international
development. Added to a reputation for competence and practical wisdom must be
idealism and ambition."

The Centre for Social Justice has the backing of the party leadership. Oliver
Letwin and David Willetts have agreed to serve on its board.

The Tories will this week try to step up their campaign to focus attention on
the domestic agenda by publishing details of their education policy, which is
likely to echo Mr Howard's pledge to give voters "choice" in health.

Elements will include giving heads the final say on exclusions by abolishing
appeals panels, giving schools and governors direct control over their budgets,
raising education spending by pounds 15 billion a year to pounds 62 billion in
2010, and reducing the role of local education authorities.

Jane Griffiths, the Labour MP for Reading East, denied reports that she was
preparing to defect to the Tories after being deselected by Labour in a vicious
internal feud.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              10 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 28, 2004

Media: Is Boris steering in the right direction?

BYLINE: Dylan Jones

SECTION: Guardian Media Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 767 words


Eighteen months ago the Spectator took it into its head - or rather, its editor
Boris Johnson took it into his - to tinker with the look of the magazine, to
slightly alter its design.

He had alerted me to his way of thinking a little over a year beforehand - over
tea at Claridge's, with Boris still wearing his bicycle clips - but it shows the
respect in which Boris holds his readers that it took him well over a year to do
anything about it. And while I certainly don't want to take any credit for
Boris's reticence, I advised him to tread carefully and not throw the baby out
with the bath water - trying to mix as many metaphors as possible As it turns
out, the Spectator's redesign was more than worth the wait.

No subscriber or regular reader enjoys having his journal of choice redesigned,
especially the reader of a magazine as august and as set in its ways as the
Speccie (although Boris's redesign did manage to annoy one regular reader: on
seeing the first redesigned issue my father promptly cancelled his subscription
and has yet to return).

The Spectator's design is not the only thing that has changed since Boris took
over, four and half years ago. In the light of Boris's enormous fame - as an MP,
a TV pundit, columnist and, I should add, GQ car columnist - it is easy to
forget that he is also a highly proficient and continually surprising magazine
editor.

He is a successful one, too: since he became editor in the autumn of 1999 the
magazine's sales have risen from 57, 544 to 63,223, while ad revenue has
increased considerably. As its rival publication, the decidedly fuddy-duddy New
Statesman, has faded into the margins (although it still sells around 25,000
copies a week), the Spectator sets the news agenda and makes lots of money (when
was the last time the New Statesman broke a decent news story?).

The magazine is consistently inventive, with new columnists such as Charles
Moore and Ukip spokeswoman Joan Collins, and a host of fashionable and
contrarian views (where else but the Spectator would you expect to find a piece
in praise of traffic wardens?). And then there is Stephen Glover - few people's
idea of an ideal luncheon companion, but a must-read columnist all the same.
Recently there has also been a very public spat between Sheridan Morley (its old
theatre critic) and Toby Young (its sometime current one), with Toby of course
coming out on top.

It's funny, too. It's still supremely capable of winding us all up - which is
essentially still its prime purpose I think - yet it's actually a hoot to read.

The other reason the Spectator is on such a roll is because of Boris himself.
Without wishing to blow smoke up his skirt, his enormously high profile has made
the magazine seem more relevant, more exciting, and more mainstream than ever.
Far from being a dilettante or blond flibbertigibbet, Boris has taken naturally
to editing, becoming a brave and diligent custodian of the brand.

Blondie also appears to have something of an innate gift for presentation and
design, and though he might like to come across all bluff like someone's
bumbling old uncle, his editorial skills are beyond reproach. Could he edit the
Telegraph? In a heartbeat. Would he - as the epitome of the modern-day hyphenate
- have time to do it? Of course not.

His mag still has its weak spots. It still employs Taki (an editorial lapse that
looks odder by the week) and has not really successfully replaced Jeffrey
Bernard's Low Life column. Of course it is still a haven for mad, rightwing
cheerleaders, but if you miss it, you worry (when was the last time you worried
that you'd missed a copy of the New Statesman?).

It has to be said that Boris has also been helped by the turbulent political
climate. Four or five years ago, the Spectator had the capacity to come across
like the angry uninvited man in the dinner jacket banging on the doors of the
nightclub, because then, when the Labour Party were all-powerful (and making
decisions the electorate expected it to make), any voice of the Tories seemed
like an empty voice. These days, the Spectator's voice is louder than ever, and
its trenchant criticism of the government is increasingly popular.

At the moment, the Spectator feels bang on the money. It is diametrically
opposed to the government and almost everything it does, yet increasingly it
seems to speak on our behalf. It is contrary and rightwing, yet it advocates
libertarianism above all else. In a nutshell, it is in the enviable position of
targeting the few and being accepted by the many.

Clever, that.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 28, 2004, Monday

LAW: LEGAL EAGLE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 262 words


LORD HUTTON (left) is to break his silence over his chairmanship of the inquiry
into the death of the government scientist Dr David Kelly. The retired law lord
is preparing to respond to his critics, who have accused him of conducting a
whitewash and misinterpreting the law. "He feels enough time has elapsed to say
something that will put the record straight without causing a political rumpus,"
says a family friend. "But he wants to choose the time and place, somewhere he
feels comfortable." An obvious choice would be one of the Inns of Court, where
Lord Hutton still has many friends and admirers.

LAWYERS HAVE been queuing up to testify to the legal chaos that would follow if
Britain should ever decide to pull out of Europe. Hundreds of EU directives
would have to be repealed, UK judges recalled to London and millions of pounds
spent on disentangling us from the bureaucracy of Brussels. Because no-one has
ever envisaged the possibility of a member state making such a request there is
no legal mechanism for a clean break. Not so with the latest draft of the new EU
constitution. This contains a specific withdrawal clause that simply requires
that a member state serve the appropriate notice period before parting company
with the rest of Europe. As unpalatable as it might be to leaders of the United
Kingdom Independence Party, the quickest way to leave Europe is to sign up to
the new EU constitution.

Legal eagle offers a bottle of champagne to anyone who provides information that
results in a diary item. legaleagle@independent. co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              12 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 28, 2004, Monday

The £500 million businessman who would spend every last penny to extricate
Britain from Europe

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 1005 words


One of Britain's richest men is about to do something he considers disgusting -
but he feels he must for the good of his country.

Paul Sykes, the diminutive Yorkshireman whose financial support is largely
responsible for the phenomenal success of the UK Independence Party, has just
become one of its most senior strategists. Although this sounds like a key
political role, he balks at being described as a politician.

"Ew, don't call me that, lass," Mr Sykes said, giving a rare interview to The
Times while sitting drinking tea in Parliament buildings. "If there was a lie
detector test to get in here, the place would be empty. Call me a campaigner."

The son of a miner who left school without qualifications, Mr Sykes, 61, began
his business empire in Barnsley by dismantling buses for scrap, later becoming a
property and internet tycoon. Now he is promising to blow his £500 million
fortune on dismantling Britain's relationship with the European Union.

Mr Sykes, taking an official political role for the first time, has been charged
with leading a massive expansion and reorganisation of the UKIP, and leading its
next campaigns.

"I'll spend every last penny I have," he said, preferring the anti-EU cause to
bequeathing the money to his four children. He lives in a far from palatial
townhouse in Harrogate, distinguished by its 30ft flagpole flying the Union
Flag.

Rumours that he was so patriotic he sat down to eat with the British flag draped
around his shoulders are untrue, he said, but the patriotic spirit behind it is
about right.

"To me, it's no good creating wealth to leave to your child if you're not going
to leave them with a self-governing democracy. That to me is the most important
thing a nation owns."

Much has been made of the UKIP's celebrity endorsements, but where Robert
Kilroy-Silk, one of the party's 12 new MEPs, is suave, Mr Sykes is blunt.

His cheerful disregard for politicians -whose view on life he dismissed as "not
real" and totally out of step with the grass roots of Britain on the issue of
Europe -is demonstrated when he caught sight of Robin Cook.

"Robin!" he shouted across a crowded room, and Mr Cook turned in alarm.

"Paul! Er, I have a plane to catch," a terrified-looking Mr Cook said.

"All right, lad, off you go," Mr Sykes said, releasing him.

Mr Sykes will be spending more time in Westminster over the next six months,
finding the party London offices, setting up regional offices and a professional
party structure, recruiting for the new post of the UKIP chief executive, and
orchestrating the first of the party's campaigns.

Rather than fight the two by-elections next month, the UKIP's stepping stone to
the general election will be the "no" campaign in the referendums on three
regional assemblies for the North of England in October.

When asked why he thinks that the UKIP will succeed when many commentators have
dismissed its showing at the European elections as an isolated protest vote, his
answer is typically forthright.

"We've got more loot," he said. "On this issue we will not be short of funds."

Although Mr Sykes has not taken an active role in politics before, his wealth
and commitment to the Eurosceptic cause have given him powerful influence. The
Electoral Commission was set up by the Government in 2000 partly to limit the
campaign spending by figures such as Mr Sykes.

"It was Prescott who pushed Blair to set up the Electoral Commission, because of
what I spent on Europe," he said.

"Which is fine, because it so happens that the limit they set for the general
election, the other parties aren't going to reach half of it."

Mr Sykes backed the Conservative Party during his 27 years as a member. But in
1991 he left the party in protest at the Maastricht Treaty, after a passionate
hour-long meeting with Michael Howard in his office.

"I said to him you've just signed away the power of the British people to run
their own economy," he said.

Since leaving the Conservatives he has spent more than £5 million on the
Eurosceptic cause, including more than £1 million on the UKIP's European
election campaign. He would stop if he didn't think that most Britons were
Eurosceptics, he said, which is why he spends "more on polls than anyone in
politics".

He wants the UKIP to lead two out of the three regional referendums, but first
they have to convince the Electoral Commission that the UKIP best represents the
"no" cause.

"It absolutely is a Brussels issue. It's part of the Brussels plan to make us a
Europe of regions rather than a Europe of nations," he said. "To have a
Brussels-inspired assembly governing Yorkshire would be the low point of my
life."

Will Mr Sykes ever give up the fight? "Once everything at UKIP is in place: the
European elections, the referendums on the regional assembly, and the
constitution, the general election, then after that goodbye. I'll see whether I
even want to live in Britain any more."

There is a pause.

"Lass," he said. "That last bit was a joke."

Time Hames, page 16 Leading article and Letters, page 17

THE RISE OF A SELF-MADE MAN

Born Barnsley, son of a miner

Education Left school at 15 with no qualifications

Career Two years as a tyre fitter, dismantling buses for extra money. At 18, he
began his bus parts business. Made first million aged 28

1980s Turned to property, including Meadowhall, near Sheffield

1990s Set up Planet Online, selling internet services to businesses

'It's no good creating wealth to leave to your child if you're not going to
leave them with a self-governing democracy'

'You've just signed away the power of the British people to run their own
economy'

To Michael Howard after Maastricht

'If there was a lie detector test to get in here, the place would be empty'

On Parliament

'It absolutely is a Brussels issue. It's part of the Brussels plan to make us a
Europe of regions rather than a Europe of nations'

On regional assemblies


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 28, 2004, Monday

Tories fear rejectionists may hijack EU campaign

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 432 words


The Conservative leadership and mainstream Eurosceptics fear that the cash rich
UK Independence Party may undermine the official "No" campaign in a referendum
on the EU constitution.

The UKIP's success in this month's European elections, when it won 16 per cent
of the vote on a platform calling for British withdrawal from Europe, has left
plans for the referendum in disarray.

Conservatives had wanted to exclude what they regard as "extremists" from the
official campaign on the referendum, expected to be held in 2006. Plans had been
drawn up for a core message: "Yes to Europe. No to an EU constitution."

But aides acknowledge that the rise of the UKIP, which would never accept such a
slogan, has given withdrawalists "every chance" of gatecrashing their campaign.
They fear that this will play into Tony Blair's hands by allowing pro-Europeans
to present the referendum as a straight choice of being "in or out" of the EU.

"Michael Howard wants to renegotiate our position in Europe. UKIP want to pull
out. It will be quite difficult to fit both views under the same umbrella," said
a senior Tory.

Under election law, the official "Yes" and "No" campaigns will each be allowed
to spend a maximum of £5 million, while other "permitted participants" will be
limited to budgets of £500,000.

Sam Younger, the chairman of the Electoral Commission, told The Times recently
that he was concerned that wealthy benefactors could set up dozens of groups,
all of which would be able to spend £500,000. "That could distort the whole
campaign. The legislation is flawed," he said.

As Paul Sykes, the UKIP's chief funder, makes clear in his interview with The
Times, he wants his party to play a full part in the official "No" campaign.

Should the UKIP be excluded, his financial muscle would ensure that it could
still outspend the Tories and drown out more moderate Eurosceptic arguments.

Mr Sykes, whose fortune is said to be worth £500 million, says that he is
willing to spend it all fighting for Britain's independence from Europe.

The New Frontiers Foundation, which was set up last year as a fledgeling
official "No" campaign, has already held discussions with Mr Howard on the
issue. Dominic Cummings, the foundation's director, said: "It is inconceivable
that UKIP could head the campaign, but it is not inconceivable they will be part
of the campaign."

He pointed out that Labour and the Scottish Nationalists were able to share a
platform in the devolution referendum, despite disagreeing about whether the
country should be independent.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 27, 2004

Comment: Letters to the Editor: Small beer

BYLINE: Richard Bryant

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 177 words


Is it possible to see a connection between the dismaying violence and aggression
of our alcohol-fuelled football 'supporters', both home and abroad (Mary
Riddell, Comment, last week), and the boorish outbreak of violence that has
apparently sullied the name of Channel 4's Big Brother

On the one hand, the violence of these faux-patriot Little Englander hooligans
is in some sense merely the physical manifestation of the distasteful verbal
prejudices (witness the 'if it wasn't for the English, you'd be Krauts' taunt)
that are peddled on an almost daily basis by the supposedly respectable likes of
Robert Kilroy-Silk and his small-minded Ukip party and newspapers such as the
Sun , Daily Express and Daily Mail

The moronic BB , meanwhile, championed by Melanie Hill in your paper, is merely
one of the most high-profile examples of the vapid excuse that passes as
'culture' or 'entertainment' in the Beckham-obsessed, narcissistic and under-
educated environment that so many of our population seem to celebrate.

Richard Bryant

London N16


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 27, 2004, Sunday

The Kinks

BYLINE: Stewart Lee

SECTION: Features; Culture; 25

LENGTH: 158 words


THE KINKS. ... Are the Village Green Preservation Society. Sanctuary SMETD102
*****

Like the Beach Boys' Smile, the Kinks' Village Green Preservation Society has
latterly benefited from the efforts of a coterie of enthusiastic critics bent on
reclaiming it as the great 1960s album. And with St George flags everywhere, and
UKIP exploiting Little England's ignorant anxieties, its love-hate relationship
with our sense of national identity seems oddly prescient. Sanctuary's three CD
overhaul of outtakes, extras and stereo and mono versions of the 1968 original
may appear to overstate its case, but when the stridently ambivalent title track
kicks in, you know you're headed into a complex negotiation with an idea of
Englishness that, even 36 years ago, was already compromised. Beneath the
beat-boom, vaudeville musical stylings, Ray Davies exhibits a needling nastiness
that makes the punk movement look positively polite.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On Record; Music; Pop and Jazz

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 27, 2004, Sunday

Blair's only hope on Europe is defeat

BYLINE: Frank Field

SECTION: Features; News Review 5

LENGTH: 1270 words


Frank Field, Labour MP, says that the sooner Blair has his referendum on the
constitution and is beaten, the better

One last heave and the 1950s-designed European project could be decisively
derailed. That prospect is now open to the British electorate when it comes to
vote on the European constitution. Waiting in the wings are the European Union's
most recent members, who are set to break the old mould of European politics.

In those early post-war years, practically all of us would have signed up to the
dream of the EU's founding fathers. How could Europe be prevented from setting
the world alight once again by war? The 19th-century view that free trade was a
bulwark against nations warring among themselves was rolled out into service.

But this old idea was packaged in new wrapping bearing the logo of a superstate.

The wrapping paper all too soon took on a life of its own. The European
constitution is the culmination of the move to establish a central state, with
member states taking on over time the character of mere regions.

An important move in fulfilling that plan comes with Britain surrendering
sovereignty in more than 40 areas, ranging from areas of criminal law to social
security to the free movement of workers. From now on British policy will be
determined on these topics by a majority decision, whereas before unanimity was
required.

But at least the loss of sovereignty in these areas is clearly listed. Much more
menacing is the role of the European Court of Justice. This is a body charged
with what has become known as Euro-crawl; a dynamic body extending the dominance
of European over domestic law. The court determines how treaties and regulations
should be interpreted. Its decisions are final.

The ECJ will over time make short shrift of Tony Blair's famous red lines. Even
the sacred area of taxation will not be immune from its influence.

Changes, at first, may appear small. One of the court's recent decisions
concerned a Dutch company, Bosal Holdings. The company's lawyers successfully
argued that Dutch law effectively restricted Bosal's right to locate operations
wherever it wanted inside the EU. The court ruled in favour of Bosal.

On the surface the case might not seem important. But experts have noted that
the Dutch Treasury is likely to lose about £1 billion in annual tax revenue as
dozens of other Dutch companies take advantage of the ruling that a company has
the right to deduct interest payments made on money borrowed to invest in
non-Dutch European subsidiaries.

The primacy of the ECJ has been hotly disputed, particularly in France and
Germany. Not any more. Part I, article 10 of the new constitution subjects all
member states to the power of the court.

So what are the grounds for my optimism? And why do I see the United Kingdom
Independence party as holding open a promise only for yesteryear?

In asking this I have no wish to underestimate UKIP's challenge to Labour. If a
survey of Labour members and activists could be arranged with total
confidentiality on how individuals voted in the European elections, I have
little doubt that the result would shock the leadership of my party out of its
strange complacency that UKIP is a bigger threat to the Tories than it is to
Labour.

Of course the Conservatives were severely hurt by UKIP in the elections. But the
fledgling party is able to touch a raw nerve that runs right through British
politics. And it does so because voters believe the old political class has
dissembled too many times about what it has already agreed with Europe over this
country's future.

A very large part of Labour's vote is deeply suspicious of British politicians'
ability to defend their country's interest in Europe. That is why it is so
extraordinary of the prime minister to open his campaign on the European
constitution by declaring that now was the time to distinguish between fact and
fiction.

Most voters are eager to do precisely this. They are not political innocents
waiting for the prime minister to impress upon them his latest ideas. They are
foot soldiers grown tired of a political leadership that at every turn promises
a strong defence only to retreat by redrawing the map of where British interests
lie.

This is why it is in Labour's interest to hold the referendum quickly. The bill
on the constitution should not take that long to go through parliament. There
should be no trench warfare in holding the measure up now that a referendum is
promised.

I believe the prime minister is mistaken in thinking that the more he explains
the constitution the more voters will agree with his interpretation.

We are no longer in 1997, when most of us would have walked on water if that is
what the prime minister asked us to do. Most voters still see Blair as having
that crucial quality of looking like a prime minister. Nobody else comes near to
touching him in this respect. But trust is no longer, I am afraid, Blair's
strongest card. A long campaign led by him on the constitution could just as
well increase opposition as win around a deeply sceptical electorate.

We are told that the advice of Blair's kitchen cabinet is to delay the
referendum until after the election. These are, of course, the very people who
until recently pressurised the prime minister not to hold a referendum in the
first place.

Their line is that it will be impossible to win an election after losing a
referendum -a revealing comment in itself. But letting the people veto the
constitution could, ironically, be Labour's best launching pad for a third
election victory. It would see Blair not only in his teaching role, but in
listening mode as well. And then, when the votes are counted, doing what the
electorate wants.

But there is an equally important reason for getting the referendum out of the
way. Once the British people have vetoed it, as I believe they will, a new
European dawn begins. When the prime minister spoke to the house the other day
about the countries that have recently become EU members his body language
changed. He was relaxed. He stopped nervously holding his glasses onto his face
as though they might drop off. He ceased looking at his notes.

He knows that at least he has a band of allies around the European top table.
And he is right. The new countries haven't thrown off a 50-year communist yoke
only to allow themselves to become serfs to an over-powerful Brussels
bureaucracy. Once the constitution is defeated these countries, with British
leadership, will begin rebuilding Europe.

The principles of rebuilding will reflect today's values and will be in stark
contrast to those of the early drab post-war years.

A defeat of the constitution will be a defeat for the old politics where power
resided at the centre and people's lives were made to conform to an ever
expending centralised programme. How the new Europe will look five years hence
is anyone's guess.

But that is part of the excitement. What we do know is that once the new
countries ally themselves with the kindred spirits of Britain, Sweden and
Denmark the cardinal value will be diversity.

Differences will be valued because they will be seen as strengths, and the new
Europe will play to each of these individual strengths rather than break
national spirits into some form of pan-Europeanism.

It will be a Europe run by a lighter touch. It will be a Europe that joins
sovereignty to fight the threats of the environment and the threats of
terrorism, rather than one which loses sovereignty to fulfil a 50-year-old
abstract dream.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 27, 2004, Sunday

We're all going on a summer holiday (to get away from you -ooo ooo)

BYLINE: Richard Woods

SECTION: Features; News; 14

LENGTH: 1893 words


Radio stations are trying to ban Cliff Richard's records, but his fans are
fighting back. Richard Woods reports on how the Peter Pan of pop divides Britain

One day in years to come, when the National Trust has bought Sir Cliff Richard
to preserve him for the nation, the critics will hark back with admiration and
outrage. Look at that fine neo-Elvis facade, they will say, that landscaped
hairstyle and the endless rooms echoing to Living Doll.

How could we have thought of demolishing Cliff Richard, symbol of Britain's
20th-century heritage? How could we have let a grade-I example of early popular
culture fall into neglect?

For at present the mood in certain quarters is that Cliff is a national treasure
more to be buried than celebrated. Radio stations have taken to avoiding his
songs like the plague, apparently because they induce either delirium in the
elderly or a feeling of nausea in the young.

Large swathes of the public no longer want to go on a jolly bus ride with him.

The faceless suits in charge of broadcasting have decided that Cliff is not cool
- and he's not managed to be so uncool that he can be cool in an ageing, anti
cool kinda way.

Instead, he has become the new Queen Mum: a part of the nation's fabric, so
engagingly detached from reality that nobody's quite sure how to handle him. It
has left him in the unique position of being the biggest-selling singles artist
of all time in Britain, yet struggling to get airplay.

This became apparent last week when Tony Blackburn -a poptastic institution
himself once described as "Cliff Richard without the religion" -dared to break
the taboo.

Against company orders he played two of Cliff's old hits on his breakfast show
on the Classic Gold radio station.Within hours, Blackburn was suspended from his
job.

Cliff, according to an e-mail sent by Paul Baker, the radio station's head of
programmes, didn't fit Classic Gold's "brand values".

Middle England, slumbering while Iraq burned and Tony Blair and Michael Howard
did battle over the NHS, woke up with a jerk. This was serious: a high-level
conspiracy was out to block the playing of Cliff records. People (mostly Tim
Henman fans, one imagines) bombarded the radio station and other media with
messages of dismay.

"I was aware there was a ban," said Blackburn later. "People just don't play
Cliff Richard records any more. I've never understood why. I just ignored it."

Not long ago the BBC proved reluctant to play Cliff's song Millennium Prayer,
although it sold well. Even Bill Latham, Cliff's manager, now confirms that the
star has become a performer non grata.

"For some time we have been aware that airplay is getting more difficult," he
said. "I'm not saying we don't get any, but certainly... he's not Mr Cool these
days."

As the nation took sides over the singer, it became apparent there was more to
this than just a dispute over ditties (there is, after all, no argument that
Cliff's Eurovision classic, Congratulations, is the most irritating song of all
time).

While some people love Cliff, others find him vomit- inducing. His music, they
say, is like having maple syrup poured in your ears.

He's just too terribly, horribly nice.

Is he a paradigm of goodness, a puritanical goody two shoes? The answer says
much about the changing "brand values" of modern Britain.

ON THE face of it, Cliff ought to be a hero. He's had chart hits -as he never
tires of telling us -every decade from the 1950s to the 1990s, and at first he
was seen as a pioneer, albeit as an Elvis mimic.

NME described his early act as "violent hip-swinging and crude exhibitionism"
and a "form of indecent, short-sighted vulgarity". He went on to sell 250m
records, stay sober, make a fortune and, at 63, retain an absurdly youthful
appearance.

Unlike Elvis, Cliff ended up bingeing on the Bible, not burgers, booze and dope.

The hardest drug he has ever taken may well be aspirin. And as for wild sex -
well, you just don't go there with Cliff. He's a one-man British embodiment of
the Silver Ring Thing, the American group over here to urge teenagers to abstain
from sex before marriage. Cliff, of course, has never married, so there's no
question of sex, is there?

If you play your girlfriend his 1988 Christmas hit, Mistletoe and Wine, she'll
probably cringe so much that chastity is the only option. He is no more likely
to sing "Yo, motherf*****, kill that bitch" than he is to miss the tennis
championships at Wimbledon, where his appearance in the stands causes as much of
a flutter as Tim Henman's does on court.

To his fans he is a paragon -and they cannot understand how anyone could dislike
him.One of his fan clubs sells teddy bears; another proudly notes that in 1992
he was named "spectacle wearer of the year". But as Latham admits, many of these
fans tend to be "women of a certain age" who remember a Britain when pop was pop
and all the cultural complications of punk rock, reggae, hip-hop, rap and the
rest had yet to arrive.

Others take a different view. In a random poll of 100 members of the public of
varying ages last week, only 20% said they liked Cliff. About 35% said they were
indifferent to him and a rather shocking 45% said they disliked him.

How can this be? Typical of many respondents was Malcolm Rogers, 55, a market
stallholder in Hertfordshire. "He's too squeaky clean," Rogers said. "He used to
be a guy that people loved, now I think his Christianity comes through too
much."

Victor Adebodun, a 19-year-old student in London, agreed: "The music doesn't
appeal to me, and he's too goody-goody. Nobody's really that nice all the time."

The British, it seems, can no longer cope with people being "too nice". The
problem, says Dr Penelope Johnson, a psychologist who has studied perfectionism,
is that in modern, dysfunctional Britain "you can't really identify with someone
like Cliff Richard". He's too worthy, too "holier than thou", too successful and
too sweetly patronising.

"But you can sympathise with someone like Paul Gascoigne, who is in the public
eye for his shortcomings as well as his talent," said Johnson. "I have a lot of
sympathy for Gascoigne, but I don't think Cliff Richard inspires sympathy."

Judging by Cliff's website, he doesn't need to. His idea of updating his fans is
to tell them about his vineyard and estate in Portugal or his new house in
Barbados. Oh, and he has another album out later in the year.

WHAT the British now like in their stars are flaws or the ability to laugh at
themselves. Cliff, unfortunately, fails on both counts, even though he has had
opportunities to make good. Years ago in the television series, The Young Ones,
Rik Mayall used to mock one of the other characters for being a Cliff Richard
fan.

Later, Chris Evans used to take the mickey out of the singer.

Did Cliff play along? No. Instead, in the words of the singer George Michael,
"he was always taking his hat off to himself, telling you how many hits he's
had".

Blackburn, by contrast, has continued to be successful on radio and television
partly by being able to send himself up.

"I'm not stupid, though people might think I am," he says cheerily. "I've always
thought the thing is not to take yourself too seriously."

It's an attitude that led to him being voted the winner of the first I'm A
Celebrity, Get Me Out Of Here! reality TV show. Cliff, one suspects, would not
have lasted long in the jungle with Tara Palmer-Tomkinson, and would have been
eaten alive by Jordan.

He continues to take himself and his music seriously. "Cliff's still a great
competitor," says Latham, "all he asks for is a level playing field."

Whoever heard of a level playing field in the music business? It's like asking
Mick Jagger to stop chasing women.

And even Blackburn, who denies his suspension was a publicity stunt, has his
doubts about some of Cliff's music.

On Thursday, Classic Gold, having caved in to listener demands, restored
Blackburn to his show and allowed him to play some Cliff songs.

"We interviewed Cliff on the show," said Blackburn, "and he said: 'I'm looking
forward to hearing all my records'. I said: 'Er, not all of them Cliff'. Let's
be honest, one or two are really duff."

All of which is rather a shame, because Cliff started out so well. "Much of his
oeuvre is middle-of-the-road rubbish, but he was an important figure in the
development of pop," says Mark Edwards, music critic for The Sunday Times.

"The early stuff with the Shadows -he was an innovator. At that time Cliff
Richard was as cool as you could get."

That early music is well worth recognising on classic pop and rock radio
stations, he says, and Blackburn deserves credit for breaking the unspoken ban
on Cliff's records.

The general consensus remains, however, that as a pop star Cliff has gone right
off the rails. How dare he forgo the required descent into drink, drugs and
debauchery before recovering to become a landed gentleman?

Cliff, though, may well end up having the last laugh. Elvis died young. Keith
Richards looks more dilapidated than a ruined castle. Cliff, on the other hand,
looks like an advertisement for a gym. Earlier this year his Albert Hall concert
sold out and he has a series of summer concerts lined up in stately homes.

If he is ever bought by the National Trust he will no doubt end up beautifully
preserved with manicured lawns and a sign saying "Please keep off the grass"
(and the drink, the women and the swearing).

And the likelihood is that thousands of people, strange though they may be, will
go on wanting to pay him a visit when they -all together now -all go on their
summer holiday...

THE GOODY-GOODY TENDENCY: HOW OTHERS ARE CURSED WITH A TOUCH OF THE CLIFF

Tony Blair: Used to be Cliff -devout, plays the guitar, insists he is a pretty
nice guy -but blew it all by bombing Iraq. Cliff would have tried to win them
over with his brand of Christian rock

Tim Henman: Clean-living, enjoys tennis. Middle-aged women are prepared to camp
on the streets overnight just for a glimpse. Could be Son of Cliff.

Marks & Spencer: Been around for years, middle-of-the-road, not as popular as it
used to be. Cliff in retail.

Sebastian Coe: Once the goody-goody's goody-goody. So cosy that he advertised
Horlicks. He was the Cliff of athletics but has lost his shine after it emerged
he had a sex life

UK Independence party: Political Cliff. Popular but regarded with deep suspicion
by the chattering classes. If UKIP joins Cliff on a summer holiday, they want to
be sure he won't be taking his red bus to Europe

Chris Martin: Like Cliff, Chris moved effortlessly from rock stardom to instant
middle age. He also takes himself very seriously. If he doesn't wear cardigans
yet, he should.

Werther's Originals: The Cliff of confectionery. Appears to be deliberately
marketed at pipe-and-slipper Rotarians.

Sir Paul McCartney: The Cliff of the Beatles. Once a rebel, he portrays himself
as Mr Ordinary and can't see why Lennon will always be cooler.

Chinos with a crease and turn-ups: A perfect fashion metaphor for Cliff. You
wear chinos for a casual, laid-back effect, then ruin it all with goody-goody
turn ups and a crease.

A week in the Canaries: the ultimate Cliff of a holiday destination.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 27, 2004, Sunday

Little Americans:

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 66 words


I find it strange (and amusing) that UKIP, a party that talks so much about
independence and sovereignty, should run to an American for advice about its
election campaign (News, June 13). Perhaps, though, it is merely symptomatic of
all Eurosceptics: what they really want is for Britain to turn its back on
Europe and follow in the footsteps of the USA. -John Hart, Woodbridge, Suffolk.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Points; Letter

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 27, 2004, Sunday

Flexing our muscles as kingpin of Brussels

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 42 words


MIRE:Congratulations to Smith. I supported UKIP in the recent election.

Hopefully many others will reject candidates of the traditional parties so that
we do not slip further into the costly Brussels mire.

Stan Fitzgerald Witham, Essex


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Letter

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 27, 2004, Sunday

Mo brandishes her little cross to hit 'stupid' Blair where it hurts

BYLINE: Sue Denham

SECTION: Features; Ulster News 17

LENGTH: 183 words


Ordinary voters might have trouble making up their minds at election time, but
you'd think a former Labour cabinet minister would know instinctively where to
put her little cross. Not so Mo Mowlam.

The former Northern Ireland secretary has delivered a less than ringing
endorsement of the prime minister. She says she'll probably vote for him maybe,
if she's free on election day and there's nothing on the telly -but only if
something better doesn't turn up.

"Even though he's arrogant, I might end up voting for him if the choice is
between him, Howard, Kennedy and the UKIP," she tells her local paper, Kent On
Sunday.

Why has Tony Blair lost her support? She says the war on Iraq was "stupid" and
calls upon him to apologise. "We shouldn't have gone in as American lapdogs,"
she continues.

You'd think that all this would be splendid news for Gordon Brown as he pushes
his nose up against the window of 10 Downing Street.

But hard-to-please Mo's not very impressed by him either. "Maybe he's a good
chancellor," she says, "but I don't think he'd be a good leader."


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Diary

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 27, 2004

LEADER; END THIS SILLY KNOCKABOUT IN THE COMMONS

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 553 words


DO THE Prime Minister and Michael Howard have any idea of how farcical they
appear in their daily slanging matches? Are they remotely aware of how their
mutual squabbling and name-calling turns off the voter?

Obviously not, otherwise they would stop.

One night, the TV knockabout in which they are shown trying to make the best
sound bite, trip each other up, and land a punch, is reminiscent of a Tom &
Jerry cartoon - except that the British pair are pathetic rather than funny. The
next, the two socalled leaders have transformed themselves into dodgy
auctioneers - slightly upmarket Arthur Daleys - attempting to outbid one another
in trying to sell us our NHS for votes.

Someone ought to tell them how all this is perceived by the electorate, of how
unseemly, of how tacky, they appear. Someone ought to have the courage to point
out to our Tony and Michael that neither of them are taken seriously any more,
not even by their own supporters. Both are derided, ridiculed. That is why Prime
Minister Blair was kept well out of sight during the elections for the European
Parliament and why he is not wanted in the two forthcoming byelection campaigns
in Leicester and Birmingham. In short, he is a liability.

Don't they know that the people can see through all their gimmickry?

Doesn't Tony Blair realise that, if he hasn't fixed the NHS in seven years,
there is no reason to believe that he will transform it in the next five?

The electorate knows both he and Howard lie.

They know Blair is lying when he says that threeand-a-half million jobs will be
lost if Britain amicably withdraws from the European Union.

Even the fanatically pro-European EU Commissioner, the incredibly pompous Chris
Patten, couldn't stomach a lie that big and had to issue a majestic rebuke to
Tony Blair to stop trying to frighten the people.

Nor, of course, is Michael Howard above engaging in a little bit of deceit - as
he did when pretending that we could renegotiate the EU fisheries policy. Nor is
he above attempting a bit of tasteless scaremongering himself, as when he
suggested that a constituent of his would wait 20 months for radiotherapy.

Tony Blair and Michael Howard represent the tired, jaded policies of the old
parties. They represent the deceitful past. They have had their day. It is not
just time for a change. It's time for a breath of fresh air, for politicians who
talk straight, who tell the truth. The big question is: are we ready for them?

THE UKIP members of the European Parliament hit Brussels last week. What a
mind-numbing experience it was. Apart from the Stalinist style and size of its
buildings, its extravagance and waste were evident everywhere - with heated,
carpeted corridors seemingly wider than the M8.

MEPs are met at the airport by parliamentary staff, ushered into a special
arrivals channel, eased into an air-conditioned, chauffeur-driven limo and taken
to the parliament building, where they are given a suite of rooms - each with
its own lavatory and shower. It's not difficult to believe each MEP costs the
taxpayers more than GBP 1million a year!

This is just the beginning. I will report on the waste and extravagance in the
months to come but you can see why the governing elite is so desperate to cling
on to this rich gravy train.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              22 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 27, 2004

THE EURO GRAVY TRAIN

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 161 words


THE UKIP members of the European Parliament hit Brussels last week. What a
mind-numbing experience it was. Apart from the Stalinist style and size of its
buildings, its extravagance and waste were evident everywhere - with heated and
carpeted corridors seemingly wider than the M1.

MEPs are met at the airport by parliamentary staff, ushered into a special
arrivals channel, eased into an air-conditioned chauffeur-driven limo and taken
to the parliament building, where they are given a suite of rooms - each with
its own lavatory and shower - that is bigger than many of the homes in which my
constituents live. It's not difficult to believe that each MEP costs the
taxpayers more than GBP 1million a year!

This is just the beginning.

I will report on the waste and extravagance in the months to come but you can
see why the governing elite, the metropolitan class, in Britain is so desperate
to cling on to this rich gravy train, can't you?

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              23 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 26, 2004

LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 27 words


AFTER hearing Robert Kilroy-Silk drone on about his anti-EU views, it seems the
UKIP is aptly named.

They put us all to sleep.

J.SHARKEY, Liverpool.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              24 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 26, 2004

TORIES FEAR LEADER ISN'T CONVINCING KEY VOTERS; HAS HOWARD LOST THE PLOT?

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 563 words


TORY leader Michael Howard was last night plunged into a crisis after senior
Conservative supporters admitted that he had failed to connect with Middle
England voters.

The party leader and his inner-circle were put on notice that failure to win at
least one of two parliamentary by-elections next month - in Leicester and
Birmingham - would be seen as a demonstration that the Tory message was not
being heard among crucial swing voters.

There is mounting criticism in Conservative circles that Mr Howard is "becalmed"
in the opinion polls because he is directing too much of his energy towards a
pointless attempt to win plaudits from a "metropolitan elite" which will end up
backing Tony Blair in a general election.

"We have got to start focusing on those modest middle-classes which form the
backbone of Britain, " said one disillusioned ally of Mr Howard.

"They are the people who traditionally saw the Conservative Party as the best
protector of their values and interests during the Thatcher years, but many of
whom defected to Tony Blair in 1997 and 2001.

"There is no point in either pitching our message to the stockbroker belt of
safe seats or towards the metropolitan chattering classes who may toy with us
for a while but who are always going to back Blair at the general election next
year."

The Tory leader's most senior strategists say that they will be campaigning hard
to win byelections in Leicester South and Birmingham Hodge Hill which take place
on July 15.

Howard's allies are already privately briefing that failure to win either seat
should not be seen as a significant setback.

"We will be aiming for victory in both seats, " said one adviser.

"It will be hard, because neither of them is on our list of targets which we
would need to win to form a government at the next general election."

But private polling for both Labour and the Liberal Democrats shows Mr Howard's
party is in grave danger of flopping disastrously in the by-elections and
falling back into third place.

"We simply do not detect any upswing for the Tories, " said one Labour aide. "If
they really want to get the kind of momentum they would need to even run us
close at a general election then they should be winning these kinds of seats at
by-elections.

"Neither Hodge Hill nor Leicester South is among the most deprived areas of the
country. A large part of the Labour vote is effectively on strike, and yet there
is not a flicker of a sign that potential swing-voters are enthused by the
Tories or even hearing their message.

"Their campaigning strategy is clueless. They should be directing their message
towards clerks, technicians, supervisors, skilled workers and retired people who
are not impoverished but are on modest incomes.

"Instead they appear to be aiming for bankers, barristers and stockbrokers'
wives - and there aren't many of them in Leicester South or Hodge Hill."

Following poor results at the European elections - where the United Kingdom
Independence Party made inroads into Tory support - some Conservative MPs are
beginning to wonder whether shadow home secretary David Davis would be more
successful at courting the voters of Middle Britain .

"Michael is a good Commons performer, but he needs to show he can command
support among ordinary voters outside the M25, " said one Tory backbencher.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              25 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 26, 2004, Saturday

THE WEEK IN POLITICS: YES' TORTOISE IS YET TO GET OUT OF THE STARTING BLOCK

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Jack Straw is a reluctant warrior' for Europe's cause

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 835 words


TONY BLAIR will next week receive a bitter-sweet memo from Denis MacShane, his
Minister for Europe. He will tell the Prime Minister that a referendum on the
European constitution can be won, but it could be lost unless Mr Blair and his
ministers start the campaign now.

It will not be a message that Mr Blair wants to hear. Although he claims he is
relishing a great debate about Europe, he promised a referendum mainly to shelve
the issue until after the general election. It is his insurance policy against
the Tories making Europe an election issue.

Mr Blair talks a good game on Europe, but has never followed through. In 1999 he
launched Britain in Europe, a "once in a generation" all-party campaign to
resolve Britain's ambivalent relationship with the EU. A year ago, Mr Blair and
Gordon Brown promised us "roadshows" to promote the benefits of the euro. I am
still waiting for my invitation to attend the first.

For all his good intentions, the Prime Minister has failed miserably to give a
lead on Europe. One speech every six months is not enough to combat the torrent
of Eurosceptic propaganda in most of the British press.

To make matters worse, ministers have pandered to these prejudices. Take the
much-vaunted "red lines" Mr Blair protected during the negotiations on the
constitution, allowing him to claim victory. Such language reinforces the image
of Europe as a permanent battle.

"The trouble is that several ministers do not really like Europe," one pro-EU
cabinet minister told me. Mr Blair's problem is that they include Mr Brown and
Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary. They may be reluctant warriors in the battle
for a "yes" vote. And yet Mr Blair almost certainly will not move them when he
reshuffles his Cabinet next month.

"Gordon does not want to inherit a Britain on the sidelines of Europe," one
Blairite minister said hopefully. "If he took over from Tony after a no' vote,
his Government would be like John Major's after Black Wednesday." However, Mr
Brown finds it hard to mention Europe without crowing about Britain's better
economic performance than the eurozone. Again, this is hardly a good reason to
back the constitution: if we are doing so well, do we need to join this club?

As Mr MacShane told ambassadors from EU states in London on Tuesday: "I wish we
were more confident about Europe. Too many people, as the recent elections to
Strasbourg the European Parliament showed, see the EU as a problem, not a
solution. We have to change this perception."

When will be the campaign begin? Ministers say that is the "EUR64,000 question"
and do not know the answer. I asked some of Mr Blair's closest aides. The
consensus was that the Europe issue would not die because a Bill to ratify the
constitution would be introduced in Parliament in the new session beginning in
November. But they admitted that the campaign proper would not start until after
the general election expected next May.

With Mr Blair's trust ratings at an all-time low, he will need all the help he
can get. Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, is surely right to say
that the "yes" campaign - whenever it comes - must not be run from Downing
Street. The embryo "yes" campaign for a euro referendum took its orders from an
over-cautious No 10 and flopped. Its former campaign director, Simon Buckby, has
alienated his former friends in Downing Street with some bitter public
criticism.

So can the referendum be won? On the evidence of this month's European
elections, the prospects are pretty bleak. But there was one ray of hope for Mr
Blair: the unexpected success of the UK Independence Party (UKIP) may make it
easier for him to turn the referendum into a choice between being "in or out" of
Europe rather than "yes or no" to the constitution. "We are going to have to
frighten people into believing that a no' vote would put us on the way out of
Europe," one Blair aide admitted candidly.

Optimistic pro-Europeans detect a touch of complacency in the ranks of the
Eurosceptics. They say it is better to come from behind, to be the tortoise not
the hare.

Although they will have little choice, perhaps they have a point. The evidence
of referendums on Europe in Ireland, Denmark and Sweden is that people rebel
when the establishment tells them to say "yes". Could, some pro-Europeans
wonder, we transform UKIP's guerrilla fighters into Britain's Eurosceptic
mainstream? Easier said than done, I suspect.

A more fruitful approach would to be to present the EU constitution as a vote
for the status quo, as the "yes" campaign did when Britain voted to stay in
Europe in 1975, rather than a leap in the dark (as joining the single currency
would be portrayed by the Eurosceptics in a euro referendum).

Mr Blair's trump card might be to highlight the uncertainty and chaos about
Britain's position and influence in Europe that would follow a "no" vote. But to
win, he needs to kickstart the campaign now.

a.grice@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              26 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 26, 2004, Saturday

UKIP poll lead puts Tories on back foot

BYLINE: Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 16

LENGTH: 683 words


THE capacity of the UK Independence Party to wreak havoc at the next general
election has been underlined by the publication of detailed European election
results.

A Times study of the results has shown that the Eurosceptic party, which more
than doubled its share of the vote to 16 per cent in this month's European
elections, topped the poll in 18 local authority areas around the country,
mostly in the East Midlands, Devon and Cornwall.

If that result were replicated at a general election the UKIP would win more
than 20 seats in Parliament.

Analysts believe that such a result is inconceivable, as people are much less
likely to vote for a single issue party in a general election and turnout would
also be higher. But the concentration of support for the UKIP in parts of the
country will cause concern for the main parties.

The Conservatives believe that the UKIP had a small but destructive influence on
them at the 2001 general election. Some Tories now fear that a UKIP surge at the
next general election could hamper their attempts to win or hold on to marginal
seats.

Anthony Steen, the Conservative MP for Totnes, whose seat includes two areas
where the UKIP topped the poll, described the minority party as "dangerous".

He said: "I'm caught in a pincer movement between the Liberal Democrats on one
side and the UKIP on the other. The only result of the UKIP vote is to harm the
Tories, and obviously one is concerned.

"The UKIP is off the Richter scale on the Right. They are like the Pied Piper of
Hamelin: they are obsessed by the music and are going straight over the cliff,
and they will take part of the Tory party with them."

Another Eurosceptic Tory said that his colleagues had been stunned by the
success of the UKIP in their areas. "The shock factor is very, very profound,"
he added.

Areas where the UKIP came first in the European election include North Cornwall,
Plymouth, Tendring, in Essex, and Ashfield in Nottinghamshire where Geoff Hoon,
the Defence Secretary, is the local MP. The UKIP appeared to have achieved their
best ratings in Liberal Democrat areas in the South West and Labour areas in the
East Midlands, where their star candidate Robert Kilroy-Silk was elected as an
MEP.

Richard Younger-Ross, the Lib Dem MP for Teignbridge, where the UKIP came first
in the European poll with 30 per cent of the vote, said: "The UKIP are posing
the Tories a problem. Wherever three Tories are gathered together they are in a
right spin about the UKIP."

Nick Harvey, the Lib Dem MP for nearby North Devon, where the UKIP came first,
said: "This vote is absolutely nowhere near enough for them to be winning any
parliamentary seats."

But the UKIP surge could help the Lib Dems, as it drew more support from the
Tories than any other party, he added. "My hunch is that they will do somewhat
better at the next election (than they did in 2001). That will make life even
harder for the Tories."

Ivan Henderson, the Labour MP for Harwich, which includes most of the UKIP's new
stronghold area of Tendring, said: "I have one of the highest populations of
pensioners in the country and pensioners do tend to vote against the European
issues when they get a chance. When it comes back to what they are going to gain
for themselves they make different decisions."

Harwich is a marginal seat which the Tories must win back if they are to have
any hope of getting into government. Mr Henderson said: "If you talk to the
Tories, they're actually fuming with the UKIP." A Conservative source said:
"This is very much a protest vote. Come the general election people will vote
differently. And the Liberal Democrats came fourth in the European election, so
it was not good for them either."

Leading article, page 29 POLLS APART

Areas where the UKIP topped the European poll

South West: North Cornwall, North Devon, Kerrier, Plymouth, Restormel,
Teignbridge, Torbay, Torridge, Isles of Scilly

East Midlands: Amber Valley, Ashfield, Boston, Erewash, Gedling, Mansfield, NW
Leics, Oadby & Wigston Eastern: Tendring


LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              27 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 25, 2004

SNAP ELECTIONS PUT BLAIR'S NECK ON LINE

BYLINE: by MACER HALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 234 words


RATTLED Tony Blair announced snap byelections last night in an attempt to dodge
more poll hammerings.

The Prime Minister announced that voters will go to the polls on July 15 to
elect MPs in two crunch Midlands constituencies.

The elections in Labour strongholds Birmingham Hodge Hill and Leicester South
will be seen as a big test of his leadership.

Another poor Labour vote - following pastings in the local and Euro elections -
could pile on the pressure for Mr Blair to quit.

Labour strategists hope that short campaigns will scupper Tory and Lib Dem hopes
of humiliating the Government.

The UK Independence Party, which made amazing breakthroughs in recent polls, is
unlikely to challenge either seat.

At Westminster, there was speculation that the growing anti-EU party is
targeting Peter Mandelson's seat in Hartlepool.

The former Minister, a close pal of Mr Blair, has been tipped to get a new job
as a Euro commissioner. His move would spark another by-election. The Birmingham
vacancy arose after Labour MP Terry Davis quit for a Brussels post.

In Leicester South, the by-election follows the death of Labour MP Jim Marshall.

Tory candidate Chris HeatonHarris said: "It really doesn't matter when Labour
hold this election, they are going to lose."

In Leicester South, Labour has selected Sir Peter Soulsby, who opposed the Iraq
war, as their candidate.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              28 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 25, 2004, Friday

Denis says UKIP would score own goal

BYLINE: BY Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 25

LENGTH: 116 words

Federalist Europe Minister Denis MacShane isn't known for his patriotism, but he
was making a fair stab at flying the flag yesterday. In advance of England's
Euro 2004 fixture against Portugal last night, he could be found trawling
Westminster laden down with a heap of T-shirts.

"They featured the Foreign Office logo alongside a cross of St George, and he
was handing them out to any MP he came across," says one recipient.

MacShane is characteristically partisan when asked to explain.

"Thanks to the influence of great Europeans like Sven-Goran Eriksson, we have an
England team that's doing us proud," he said. "But if UKIP gets its way, they'd
have to pack their bags and go home."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              29 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 25, 2004

Comment & Analysis: GM food is heading for your fridge: It may well be dangerous
- and it is about to enter our food chain

BYLINE: Michael Meacher

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 830 words


Genetically modified food is coming to Britain. Two applications for the
approval of GM animal feed are reaching their final stages in Brussels. This
will lead to their import into the UK, and into the human food chain. The 1998
moratorium put in place by the EU to prevent this is being broken.

One of these applications concerns Syngenta Bt 11 GM sweetcorn. It failed to get
a majority vote in the EU agricultural ministers' council but, following
ministerial deadlock, it has now been approved by the commission itself (as Ukip
might note). The second application is for Monsanto NK 603 GM maize, which is
being introduced under the novel foods regulations. It also failed to get a
majority vote in the EU's scientific regulatory committee. Ministers will now
decide and, if they don't agree, the commission will take the decision.

The safety of GM food remains a very open question. And one is not encouraged
when the guardian of our food safety, the Food Standards Agency, and
particularly its chairman, John Krebs, is so strongly pro-GM. They naively rely
on company data to prove the safety of GMOs, despite numerous reports which have
revealed the dubious credibility of company studies. The FSA has also focused
mainly on the safety of inserted GM material, and neglected the inherent risks
of the gene insertion process itself, such as the production of new toxins and
allergens.

This is a remarkable omission given that the GM process is so new. GM introduces
genes from other species, even distant ones, which nature would never do. It
also breaks up nature's all-important sequencing of the genes. Making a GM plant
thus involves breaking and joining the DNA at random locations. This leads to
substantial scrambling of both foreign and host DNA, which can produce
abnormalities in animals and unexpected toxins and allergens in food crops.

The genetic material of any species can be recombined and transferred in the
lab. Genes and new combinations can be introduced into our environment and food
chain that have never previously existed. Indeed, GM DNA is often designed to
cross species barriers. Its structural instability enhances horizontal gene
transfer and recombination, the very process that creates new diseases and
spreads antibiotic and drug resistance.

Against this background it is almost incredible, but true, that there have been
no peer-reviewed clinical studies on the human health effects of GM food.
Instead, when the biotech companies manufacture a new GM product, they compare
it with its non-GM counterpart in terms of nutrients, toxins and allergens, and
if they allege it to be "substantially equiva lent", they deem it to be safe.
Such an assumption would never be allowed in the regulation of pesticides or
drugs. It is simply a device to circumvent direct trials of the effects of GM
foods on human health, and ensures that GM crops can be patented without even
animal testing.

In the tiny number of cases where tests have been carried out, the results have
been worrying. A study in August 1998 by Dr Arpad Pusztai in Aberdeen found that
young rats fed GM potatoes for just 10 days developed growth-like thickening of
the stomach and intestinal lining. Could the overgrowth of the gut lining be a
prelude to cancer? This was highly threatening to the biotech industry, but
rather than pursue these questions, the research was closed down, and Pusztai
vilified and hounded out of his job.

In a study at Newcastle University in 2002, volunteers were fed a single meal of
GM soya. The GM DNA was found not to have been digested, as scientists had
claimed it would be, but to have survived and transferred to the gut bacteria,
which could compromise antibiotic resistance. In the US in 2000 many food
products were accidentally contaminated with GM StarLink maize, and it caused
allergic reactions in 50 Americans, some life-threatening. Recently in Germany
12 cows died after eating Syngenta's GM Bt 176 maize, and the company paid the
farmer compensation.

None of these results, which were rubbished by the scientific establishment,
have ever been followed up by further research. Where research has been done,
the results are sometimes suppressed. A study of GM Chardon LL maize, fed to
cows at Reading University two years ago, has never been published, probably
because the results were so unpalatable to the biotech industry.

The last word should go to the doctors. The BMA says: "There has not yet been a
robust and thorough search into the potentially harmful effect of GM foodstuffs
on human health". The Medical Research Council believes more knowledge is needed
of the effects of GM on metabolism, organ development, immune and endocrine
systems, and gut flora.

Instead of pursuing the arid and polarised debate about GM, isn't that precisely
what we should now do before we launch it into our food supply?

Michael Meacher MP was environment minister, 1997-2003

massonm@parliament.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 25, 2004

Cheer up: 11 reasons why losing ain't so bad : England have lost, and are out of
Euro 2004, but do not despair. Forget the 11 failures on the pitch, there are at
least 11 reasons off it for the English nation to be of good cheer

BYLINE: Patrick Barkham

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 237 words


1

In Euro 2016 Wayne Rooney will still be only 30 years old

2

At least everyone at Ukip knows how it really feels to be kicked out of Europe

3

We can now unite in our real national sport: searching for the

scapegoat. That Swedish manager is obviously to blame. Becks is useless. Wayne
who?

4

You'll save pounds in petrol now you've ripped those pesky flags of

St George off your car. Motorists have spent more than £16m in increased fuel
consumption because of their aerodynamic

drag

5

No more aggressive English yobs embarrassing us in foreign

resorts. Until the Faliraki holiday season kicks off

6

We can be proud of our Premiership talent showing us how it

is done in the tournament (and keeping our youngsters in the reserves). So let's
cheer on Thierry Henry, Patrick Vieira, Olaf Mellberg and, er, Cristiano Ronaldo

7

Goodbye midfield diamonds and defensive banks of four. Hello dogging, roasting
and texting. Now we can get back to the much more interesting stories about what
our footballers get up

to off the pitch rather than on it

8

Clothe yourself for next to nothing in all that England Euro 2004 tat going
cheap at a supermarket near you

9

Roll on the 2006 World Cup. Rooney and 20,000 English football

hooligans. In Germany

10

We'll win a medal at the Olympics in Athens. Won't we?

11

There's always Tim Henman


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 25, 2004, Friday

On a yellow card

SECTION: Sport; 52

LENGTH: 58 words


Des Lynam: "Silver Fox? More like an Arctic Fox. Is he frozen to the chair?"

Gabby Logan: "Gabby reminds me of Lady Penelope in Thunderbirds."

Graham Taylor: "Still not forgiven for taking Lineker off against Sweden in
1992."

Gary Lineker: "Evict him before he produces even more eurogags and puns. Is he
after the UKIP vote?"


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 24, 2004

SNP'S FUTURE LOOKS LESS THAN ROSIE

BYLINE: Keith Aitken

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 184 words


POOR John Swinney is said to be heartily fed up of reading how nice a guy he is.
Well, sorry to rub salt, but he is. Bright and honest, too. That was part of the
problem.

It was John's misfortune to look like Gunner Graham from It Ain't Half Hot, Mum
in an age which, for reasons passing understanding, wants to elect Arnold
Schwarzenegger.

But let's not be naive.

The reasons for his downfall run deeper than that. One is what might be called
John Major Syndrome: symptoms include a charismatic predecessor, and leading a
party that's intent on behaving like a pub brawl.

But his greatest difficulty is that, short term at least, devolution has proved
a great way to stuff the SNP. Delivered as a dullish fact, it's fallen away as
an issue. The Nats have no other.

UKIP has created a new faith in ritzy leaders.

But you could roll Pierce Brosnan, Marilyn Monroe and Socrates into one, and
still not solve the SNP's big problem, which is that home rule malcontents want
less, not more.

I don't see Roseanna Cunningham, the best of the rest, finding a quick answer
either.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              33 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 24, 2004

Ukip takes its cause to Brussels

BYLINE: Ian Black in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 460 words


Britain's hottest export to the continent, the UK Independence party, pledged to
fight for an "amicable divorce" from the European Union when its new MEPs
visited the European parliament yesterday.

Robert Kilroy Silk insisted he did not intend to wreck the union's only
directly-elected institution. But he was "not interested in making it work" and
would spend as little time there as possible.

"Our prime task is to get our country back from Brussels. That is why we are
here. We have no other function, no other purpose. We want to govern ourselves."

Nigel Farage, leader of the 12 Ukip MEPs elected on June 10, said negotiations
were continuing on membership of a 40-strong Eurosceptic group which includes
Danes, Swedes and Dutch MEPs, as well as a Polish party which also wants to
withdraw. Last parliament it was called the Europe of Democracies and
Diversities. Its new name might be the Out Of Europe Group, Mr Kilroy Silk
quipped.

Membership is likely to give Ukip funding of £1m a year in secretarial
allowances for use in the UK. That could help its referendum campaign against
the new EU constitution. It has been reprimanded for using funds improperly,
including in the cause of the "metric martyr". "We'll use the money within the
rules to further the objectives of Ukip back in Britain," said Mr Farage.

Mr Kilroy Silk wanted to fight fraud, waste and corruption, and highlight an
unpopular and little-known parliamentary institution expensively divided between
two homes in Brussels and Strasbourg.

"I cannot believe the wide variety of targets there are available," he said.
"The problem is actually selecting what message, what it is we want to take back
home to let the British people know about what is being done in their name."

Visiting the labyrinthine parliament building was depressing compared with first
entering the mother of parliaments as a Labour MP, he said. "It was exciting and
invigorating. I was part of something that meant some thing to the British
people. We felt we could change things, change the country, and we did. Here
it's anonymous, remote - not in touch. I don't feel any connection to me, to my
constituents, or to my country."

Novelty ensured a good though largely Anglophone turnout for Ukip's first press
conference, but it was not a lavish event by European standards. Nobody was on
hand to serve coffee. The interpreter booths were empty.

Graham Watson, leader of the Lib Dem MEPs, issued a frosty welcome to Brussels
for what he called the "12 angry Victor Meldrews". "With their ill-informed
prejudices and their petty parochialism, they don't look or sound like the
Britain I know," he said acidly.

Timothy Garton Ash, page 17

guardian.co.uk/politics/eu


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 24, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: EU CANNOT TAKE OUR SECURITY COUNCIL SEAT

BYLINE: DENIS MACSHANE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 250 words


Sir: The UK will retain its permanent seat on the UN Security Council. There
will be no EU seat; the EU is not and cannot be a member of the UN or take our
seat on the Security Council. The EU constitution cannot override the UN
charter, which allows only states to be members of the Security Council, and nor
would we wish it to.

Even in anti-European circles in France, no one suggests that France will lose
her seat in the Security Council or that Brussels will tell the President of
France what his foreign policy should be. Only in the isolationist anti-EU world
of UKIP and Tories like John Redwood (letter, 23 June) is this nonsense still in
use.

Britain, France, Germany and other member states will maintain their
independent, sovereign rights to decide foreign and defence policy issues. Where
all 25 unanimously agree on common foreign policy issues - for example on the
western Balkans or the Middle East peace process - we want the existing EU
foreign affairs chief, Javier Solana, to represent that policy. He adds value to
what Jack Straw, Joschka Fischer and other EU foreign ministers do. But he does
not replace them and foreign policy remains in the hands of nation states.

This is exactly the vision that Margaret Thatcher set out in the mid- 1980s
which led to the adoption of the Common Foreign and Security Policy in the
Maastricht treaty in 1991, a treaty John Redwood supported wholeheartedly.

DENIS MacSHANE

Minister for Europe

Foreign Office

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              35 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 24, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: BLAIR HAS LOST OUR TRUST

BYLINE: RICHARD DAWKINS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 301 words


Sir: Melvyn Bragg deploys his customary eloquence in defence of that other great
persuader, Tony Blair ("Stop Kicking a good Prime Minister", 21 June). It is
indeed unfortunate that we have lost Mr Blair's gifts just when we need them
most - to lead the fight against UKIP.

Britain and Europe have lost the benefit of Mr Blair's persuasive gifts because
he has lost our trust. You cannot be a great persuader if your audience doesn't
believe a word you say. And we disbelieve him, not because of his mistakes in
Iraq but because, unlike Melvyn Bragg, he obstinately refuses to admit them.

Those mistakes are far more catastrophic than Lord Bragg admits. Britain may
seem a better place to live, if you set Iraq on one side. But you can't set Iraq
on one side, because Britain is now an incomparably more perilous place to live.
British citizens are reviled and threatened around the world because of our
Prime Minister's identification with the loathed Bush. There is one thing Mr
Blair can do to regain our trust and respect: he can publicly distance himself
from Bush, and admit his policy of blindly following Bush was wrong.

Harder to do, but even more important, Blair can influence the American
electorate. The Democrats are the natural allies of the Labour Party, and
Senator Kerry's stance on Iraq is close to what Blair was trying to achieve at
the United Nations when Bush simply wanted war, regardless. Past Labour leaders,
while stopping short of a ringing endorsement of a named candidate, have found
ways to make their sympathies clear. Unlike them, Tony Blair enjoys the respect,
even adulation, of the American public. He now has a golden opportunity to make
really good use of their respect while simultaneously regaining ours.

RICHARD DAWKINS

New College, Oxford

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              36 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 24, 2004, Thursday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE: LET'S HEAR IT FOR EUROPE

BYLINE: L NAYLOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 79 words


AFTER winning important concessions from the French and Germans at last week's
EU summit, Tony Blair has begun his campaign to turn the tide of public opinion.
Most readers support his stance on Europe...

TO all those MEPs who aren't Eurosceptics, I say don't let Kilroy-Silk or any of
his UKIP politicians wreck the European Parliament, as they have threatened to
do.

We need our European partners for trade and our future prosperity.

L Naylor, Hull, E Yorks

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              37 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 24, 2004, Thursday

UKIP's first XI battle EU on home turf

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 15

LENGTH: 658 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK and his merrie band of Englishmen made their first foray into
the heart of enemy territory yesterday and vowed to rescue their country from
foreign domination.

Britain's most famous MEP, who ten days ago pledged to "wreck" the European
Parliament, stood at its soaring £750 million glass and steel headquarters in
Brussels -dubbed the "caprice of the gods" by the locals -and declared: "It's
depressing, absolutely depressing.

"When I was elected to the House of Commons 30 years ago, it was exciting,
exhilarating, because I was part of something that meant something to the
British people. But here it is anonymous, remote, distant, not in touch. There
is nothing that connects with me or my constituents."

Mr Kilroy-Silk stormed Brussels for just twenty-four hours with ten of the other
eleven UK Independence Party MEPs. It would have been twelve angry UKIP men, but
one was on holiday in Majorca.

"Are they the ones who want to pull out of the EU?" asked one perturbed
parliamentary official as the band of all-white, dark-suited, middle-aged men
swept past. Admitting doubts about the EU in its capital can generate the same
alarm as admitting a liking for satanism in the Vatican.

The UKIP army went to the enemy capital to sign in, claim their passes and
negotiate an alliance with other Eurosceptic parties to enable them to obtain EU
funding to help them to undermine the EU.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said he had not brought his wrecking-ball or bulldozer -"not
today, not today" -but he did set out his plan of attack: "I wasn't elected to
sit on committees and make this work more efficiently, or to improve the image
of the EU. I was elected to get our country back from Brussels. Everything we do
will further that cause.

"I've been here 24 hours, and I cannot believe the targets available. It is just
a question of choosing which one. This building cost £750 million and it is used
only 12 days a year -can you think of anything more extravagant?"

He repeated his pledge to expose fraud and corruption, but said he would not
adopt the voluntary code of conduct that requires MEPs to declare their
financial interests.

The former television presenter stole the show, but was visibly straining to
allow his fellow MEPs to have a say. "If anyone thinks the amount of concrete
and steel in this building is to promote co-operation between nation states
rather than create a European superstate, they are dreaming," said Roger
Knapman, a former livestock auctioneer who is defying rumours of Mr
Kilroy-Silk's rapid promotion by remaining leader of the UKIP.

"We will take part. If we can stop or delay legislation, we will do so. We will
do our best to use the money and the facilities this place provides to further
the course of Britain leaving the EU," said Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader in the
European Parliament, who has a German wife.

Mr Farage said he was optimistic about forming a group of 35 to 45 Eurosceptic
MEPs from Poland, the Netherlands, Denmark, France and Sweden. Mr Farage was
asked what the group would be called, but Mr Kilroy-Silk could not resist
bursting out: "It's obvious, we'd call it the 'Out of Europe' group. That's what
we're here for.

I just thought of it."

The MEPs were accompanied by Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire tycoon who donated £1.1
million of UKIP's £2 million election war chest.

Mr Sykes said that the money was well spent. "The BBC has been here for 30
years, and 80 per cent of British people still know next to zero about the
institutions that make 60 per cent of their laws and regulations. Implosion is
not too far away. If you ran a business like this, it wouldn't last until 10am
Monday."

"I can't wait to go home," announced Mr Kilroy-Silk, and he and his accomplices
set off for safer shores. Behind them, the European Parliament continued as
though nothing had happened.

Anatole Kaletsky, page 24 Letters, page 25


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              38 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 23, 2004

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 401 words


FORMER jailbird and ex-Tory MP Jonathan Aitken is strongly tipped to become the
UK Independence Party's parliamentary candidate in his former Kent constituency
of Thanet South, Hickey hears.

Aitken, who backed Ukip during the recent Euro elections, previously applied
unsuccessfully to be the constituency's Conservative candidate some months ago.

If selected, Aitken, jailed for perjury in 1999, would go head to head with
former Tory chief executive Mark MacGregor, who is bidding to win back the seat
from Labour. "It's for local Ukip members to decide their candidate but Jonathan
Aitken has a lot of support locally, " Hickey is assured.

PROOF that not every Scot wants the "auld enemy" of England to falter in Euro
2004.

One committed Caledonian who has been cheering England is Today programme
presenter James Naughtie. "Of course I'm supporting England, " cried Naughtie
indignantly at a London party. "I can't stand it when my fellow countrymen don't
get behind the team. When England played France, I was presenting the European
election results on Radio 4 but we had it on - with the sound down - at the back
of the studio."

THERESA MAY - best known for her leopard-print kitten heels - is still
attracting sartorial attention. Theresa, who was appointed the Conservatives'
family spokesperson last week, stood out at a Tory party for top City figures in
a striking sky-blue outfit with matching stilettoes.

"Although Russell & Bromley gave me a discount card, I admit these are by
Stephanie Kelian, " she told Hickey. Alas, she has not extended her fashion
sense to her colleagues.

Lord Hesketh, who is trying to sell his family's historic seat, Easton Neston,
for GBP 50million, wore a double-breasted navy suit, open-toed sandals and lurid
purple socks. Ugh!

DESPITE more than 40 MPs from all parties campaigning for him to receive a
knighthood, Eric Sykes was again shamefully absent from the most recent Honours
List. The snub has incensed Labour MP Jim Sheridan who is leading an early day
motion for the veteran comic to go under the sword. "It's extremely
disappointing, " says Sheridan. "Yet again, people were honoured who have
achieved a lot less than Eric. It's a very sad day for the entertainment
business when someone like him is overlooked.

"We're going to keep campaigning. I won't give up until Eric gets the
recognition that he deserves."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              39 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 23, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Divided we must stand

BYLINE: Paul Foot

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 797 words


I voted no in the 1975 referendum on EEC entry and will do so again in the
European constitution referendum - whenever that finally happens. In 1975, I was
uneasy about some of the company I was keeping. Very rightwing Little Englander
Tories for instance, not to mention fascists. But the class lines were clearly
drawn. The rich, almost without exception, were for a yes, the workers and the
poor for a no. The Labour party and the TUC were for no on two solid grounds.
First, the EEC was a capitalist club designed to cut down the influence of the
workers. Second, its institutions were created by capitalists for capitalists
and were therefore less democratic and more corrupt even than the parliamentary
democracies of its member states. Those objections seem just as powerful today.

The basic class issues may be the same, but the party lines have shifted. The
bulk of the Tory party, which, under Thatcher, called for a yes vote, now calls
for a no. So does its new lunatic and xenophobic fringe, Ukip. In 1975, the yes
campaign spent much more than the no. That may not happen again. All sorts of
millionaires are throwing their ill-gotten gains at the no campaign. On the
left, the bulk of the parliamentary Labour party (better known as the war party)
is for a yes. Some trades unions are still doubtful, but the TUC general council
is already starting to bow and scrape to Blair on the issue, and will probably
end up snivelling surreptitiously for a yes.

In these circumstances it is vitally important that those of us on the left who
want to vote no keep our distance from the rightwing campaign.
Internationalists, socialists and greens who oppose the European constitution
because it will drag us further down into the corporate whirlpool, emasculate
trade unions and further deregulate an already rampant private enterprise, are a
million miles away from the narrow nationalism of Michael Howard or Robert
Jingo-Silk. We cover a wide spectrum. Even those who favour the mildest
Keynesian economics, or the right to organise and strike against capital, or the
right to speak out and vote for social democratic policies, will find themselves
in opposition to the proposed constitution.

We must not allow our voices to be confused with the clamour of the Murdoch
press. Our votes may end up in the same place, but the reasons for those votes
need to be spelled out independently and separately. We need to campaign on
different platforms to the right, and on the same platforms as reds and greens
all over Europe who feel the same way. This rather obvious point seems to be
lost on the electoral commission. It plans to recognise and nominate only two
organisations - one for, and one against, the constitution. The lucky nominees
will be entitled to taxpayers' money to help their campaigns. But why should
there be only one recognised voice against the constitution? Why not two or
three? If the commission sticks to its rigid position, I'd argue for sticking
two fingers up to their money and campaigning separately from the chosen
organisation for a social democratic and a green Europe.

* I'm not in the habit of raising money to help the landed gentry, but I'll make
an exception for £300,000 for the ninth Baron Abinger, a distant descendant of
the poet Shelley. The baron has sold a collection of Shelley papers, which he
inherited, to the Bodleian Library at Oxford. The keeper of special collections
there, Richard Ovenden, has been striving mightily to raise the necessary
millions. Thanks to generous grants from the National Heritage Memorial Fund and
the Friends of the National Libraries, he has almost done it, but is still
£300,000 short.

The collection is magnificent. It includes many pages from the original notebook
in which Mary Shelley, then aged 18, wrote Frankenstein as her contribution to a
short-story competition with Shelley and Byron on a rainy night in Geneva in
1816. Shelley was bowled over by Frankenstein. He made notes on the manuscript,
which are in the Abinger collection, and humped it round the publishers of
London until he persuaded one to publish it. Frankenstein became one of the
world's bestsellers and is still in print.

The collection also includes lots of unpublished material by Mary's father,
William Godwin, and her mother, Mary Wollstonecraft. There is so much money
sloshing around the rich nowadays that surely there are a hundred people with
£3,000 to spare for such a national treasure. In return they can get a facsimile
of the pill-box with which Shelley illustrated his pamphlet Proposal for Putting
Reform to the Vote, which he wrote in Marlow in 1817, not to mention a place
reserved forever in what he called the "white radiance of eternity".

comment@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 23, 2004

SNP leader resigns after poor Euro poll results

BYLINE: Gerard Seenan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 652 words


The Scottish National party began its search for a new leader yesterday after
John Swinney resigned in response to the party's poor showing in the European
elections.

Within hours of the announcement, the party's deputy leader, Roseanna
Cunningham, became the first to declare that she would stand for the top job.
Other candidates are expected to throw their hats into the ring in the next few
days.

At a news conference in Edinburgh, Mr Swinney ended days of speculation by
saying that he would step down in September. His resignation was widely seen as
inevitable after poor results for the SNP under his leadership in the
Westminster, Holyrood and European elections.

Mr Swinney, 40, decided to quit after failing to secure the support of party
colleagues, many of whom believed he had become an electoral liability. He said
he was resigning to end the "relentless speculation" surrounding his leadership.

"I have come to the view that the SNP cannot make the electoral progress I
believe is possible if our vital political message is communicated through an
endless debate of my leadership," he said.

"As someone who has devoted all of my adult life to the cause of Scottish
independence, that is something I cannot allow to happen."

Mr Swinney is generally regarded as one of the most likable MSPs, but he lacks
the passion and charisma of his predecessor, Alex Salmond, and his performance
in the parliamentary chamber and on the stump was often stilted.

Support for the SNP has slipped gradually in the three successive elections
under his leadership and, although Mr Swinney had talked of overtaking Labour in
the European polls, the SNP's share of the vote fell to below 20% for the first
time since 1987.

Scotland's first minister, Jack McConnell, said: "In the end, John Swinney had
no choice but to resign, having increasingly lost the debate to Labour over the
last three years. But a change at the top won't make much of a difference. The
real problem with the nationalists is not their leadership, but their politics
and their policies."

Some MSPs and party activists believe Mr Swinney's gradualist approach and
advocacy of "full fiscal autonomy" for Scotland obscured the SNP's core message
of independence and left voters wondering what the party stood for.

Only the rise of the UK Independence party in the European polls saved the SNP
from coming third to the Tories, and a survey for last weekend's Sunday Times
revealed that almost half of the 26 nationalist MSPs wanted him to resign.

It is understood that the silence of senior colleagues forced his hand.

Mr Salmond, who will return to Holyrood from Westminster in 2007 but who has
ruled himself out of the leadership contest, said bad press and internal
disputes had precipitated Mr Swinney's exit.

"This is a decent, good man who has been laid low by a combination of the
extraordinary negativity of the Scottish press and a small faction of the SNP
that never accepted his leadership," he said.

David McLetchie, leader of the Scottish Conservatives, said: "It is (the SNP's)
message of separation from the UK that is deeply unpopular, and it has nothing
new to say on how to improve our public services. Frankly, it does not matter
who leads the SNP. The SNP is on the road to nowhere."

Ms Cunningham said she had decided to announce her intentions quickly to end
speculation.

"I believe I am best placed to provide a distinctly different political style,
while nevertheless retaining all that has been effective throughout John's
leadership," she said.

Nominations for the leadership will close on July 16.

* Piers Merchant, the former Tory MP who resigned his seat in 1997 after
allegations about his behaviour with a nightclub hostess, is to become chief
executive of Ukip, it was announced yesterday.

Leader comment, page 21

guardian.co.uk/politics/scotland


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 23, 2004, Wednesday

REVIEWS: COMEDY - AL MURRAY: THE PUB LANDLORD CAMBRIDGE THEATRE LONDON OOOO9

BYLINE: JULIAN HALL

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 456 words


TEN YEARS on from his creation, Al Murray's Pub Landlord character continues to
serve up "pints for the fellas and wine for ladies". Among this first-night
audience were co-stars from Murray's most recent TV appearance, the Hell's
Kitchen reality show: Gordon Ramsay, Edwina Currie, Matt Goss, Abi Titmuss and
James Dreyfus. For once, Ramsay wasn't the man to dish out the abuse. This was
Murray's gaff, his rules.

Ignoring the celebrity element until the end of the show, Murray fed off the
rest of the punters in trademark style, teasing them under the guise of
explaining what their names meant in Anglo-Saxon. For example, an American lady
named Bridget was told that her name translated into "unwelcome cousin". The Pub
Landlord is a blunt man, and his gurning face, lurching frame and bellowing tone
would be rather intimidating if it wasn't for a cheeky knowing smile.

There was no need for a mic to be attached to Murray: he comes over loud and
clear, whether it be in putting down the French and the Scots or making
lecherous advances to women with a Kenneth Connor-style lustful gurgle.

Murray's physical style filled the Cambridge Theatre, making it feel like a pub
much more than any set backdrop could. As a performer who started out by
mimicking the noises made by machines, guns and car boots, sound has remained an
important physical tool for him. At various points during his act he rolls words
around so much that they seem more like animal cries, echoing his character's
woes with the world.

Though uncomfortable with homosexuality, disparaging of students and a bluff and
gruff Little Englander, Murray's character doesn't stray into reactionary
anti-hero territory. Yes, his tour around the globe (represented by an oversized
beach ball) pokes fun at everyone else, including the Irish ("They're a sidecar
to our motorbike, they're going nowhere without us") and the Swiss (like a flat
that will never sell because the Austrians, Germans, French and Italians are
neighbours) - but before the UK Independence Party think of booking him as an
after-dinner act, they should hear what he has to say about Robert Kilroy-Silk.
As for the special relationship between his beloved Britain and the United
States, Murray doesn't stand on ceremony, suggesting that George Bush should be
the man the Americans send to Mars.

With the show lasting almost to two-and-a-half hours, the evening had that
lock-in feel to it: a privilege, even if maybe you had stayed a little too long.
In his own words, he knows nothing about what he is saying but he is qualified
to speak on it. Fortunately, the Pub Landlord is no bar bore.

27 June, 4 and 18 July (020-7494 5081); then touring (www.publandlordlive.com)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              42 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 23, 2004, Wednesday

OUTLOOK: TIME TO PENSION OFF THE OFFICIAL RETIREMENT AGE

BYLINE: JEREMY WARNER

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 862 words


YOU WOULDN'T think it to hear the rantings of UKIP and other eurosceptic voices,
but quite a lot of what comes out of Brussels is the very embodiment of positive
and enlightened, forward thinking. One of those things is the EU directive to
ban age discrimination in the workplace, which must be implemented by October
2006 to comply with wider European employment law.

Both the TUC and the CBI are burying their heads in the sand by refusing to
accept that the age at which employees can be forcibly retired should either be
raised or abolished entirely. The one suspects the Government of surreptitiously
attempting to water down pension rights, the other of loading up the private
sector with yet more costly employment law.

Yet the truth is that if Britain is to continue to prosper economically into the
middle and latter parts of the 21st century, then the statutory age of
retirement either has to be raised or abolished altogether, whatever the
concerns of business leaders and trade union officials.

The pensions system as currently constructed - both public and private - is
designed for the world as it was way back when in the 1950s, when the average
life expectancy for men beyond the age of 65 was just 12 years. Today it is 19
years. Demographers think life expectancy will improve further to 22 years on
average by the middle of the century, but this is a conservative view. If
present rates of growth in longevity persist, it might easily be 25 years or
even longer.

At the same time, the rate of procreation is falling. Fewer children are being
born per head of population. This has nothing to do with declining fertility,
although that may one day be a factor. Rather it is the result of rising levels
of prosperity, which paradoxically makes people more selfish, and less happy to
be burdened with the expense and labour of having lots of children. Birth
control and the growing participation of women in the workforce are the other
two big factors.

Increased longevity and the freeing up of women from the tyranny of perpetual
childbirth are two of the great wonders of the modern age which most of us would
regard as a blessing, but they also create extreme structural challenges -
progressively fewer workers for every aged dependent and an unaffordable
pensions system. As it happens, Britain is better placed on this front than most
of our European neighbours, but only because state pension provision for those
who work in the private sector is already so miserly. However, even in Britain,
there is no obvious solution to the problem other than a progressively rising
average age of retirement. The burden on the next generation would be just too
great if the compulsory age of retirement is left at 65.

It would certainly help if the Government could get its savings policies right.
The more people that can be persuaded or incentivised to save for their old age
the better. Yet in itself, a greater savings rate won't solve the problem. The
reality is that only the relatively well off are in a position to save enough to
pay for a decent pension. For the low paid, it makes no sense to save, for it
only reduces already meagre disposable income while serving to count against
means-tested benefits in retirement.

The TUC opposes abolition of a statutory retirement age because of fears that it
would usher in a work until you drop culture. All but the most basic pension
provision would go by the board, the TUC believes, and although ministers insist
that the state pension age of 65 won't be interfered with whatever happens to
the statutory age of retirement, there's every possibility that future
governments won't feel bound by this commitment. The precedent has already been
set by the decision to equalise the state pension age for women at 65 with that
of men.

The CBI seems equally opposed, but for the wholly different reason that to
abolish or raise the statutory age of retirement would add to the costs of
business by making it hard to retire workers who had become incapable of
productive work. Both views are wrong headed. Most businesses will need the
active participation of the over 65s by the middle of the century, for it is
hard to see where else they are going to get their workers from.

As for the unions, they seem to be living on a different planet in believing
that an ever dwindling pool of younger workers will willingly support the
gilt-edged pension arrangements of the growing army of leisured elderly. Never
mind class warfare: generational warfare would become the order of the day. Many
of us will be forced to work well into our 70s regardless of whether by then the
statutory retirement age is 65 or 70. With growing longevity, this is a
perfectly reasonable thing. Economic necessity will in any case force it on us.

The enlightened approach, and the one that is being recommended to the
Government by the Pensions Commission, is that there should be no statutory age
of retirement, so that the elderly enjoy at least some employment rights as they
struggle through their dotage into their places of work. You never know; it
might even improve your life expectancy.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              43 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 23, 2004, Wednesday

Earth moves - and the SNP's house looks pretty shaky

BYLINE: Angus MacLeod

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 10

LENGTH: 590 words


JOHN PRESCOTT'S famous political tectonic plates gave another groan yesterday
and brought down John Swinney's leadership of the Scottish National Party.

It was no great surprise. Psychologically at least, Mr Swinney appeared to have
accepted several months ago that the ground underneath him was shifting, and not
to his advantage, when he spoke about leaving a legacy of internal modernisation
to his party.

Party leaders who believe they have a big future do not talk prematurely about
leaving a legacy.

To put it bluntly, the whole SNP house is now displaying major structural
cracks.

The party has made little or no attempt to adjust to devolution in any
meaningful way, other than to oppose whatever the Labour/Liberal Democrat
Scottish Executive chooses to do.

Neither has it found a consistent voice. At one and the same time, it wants more
taxpayers' money spent on public services, an end to private investment in the
public sector along with low taxes on business. That incoherence reached a nadir
a few weeks ago when it claimed to be a "green" party which wanted a cut in fuel
taxes.

Mr Swinney has a fair point when he claims that the Scottish public's
disillusion with devolution has not helped the SNP's cause.

But such statements also contain within them a lack of recognition that the
self-same voters do not consider a party whose one clear aim is more
constitutional upheaval as any kind of answer.

The real surprise surrounding Mr Swinney's departure is that there appears to be
so many candidates willing to take over from him.

The SNP has always been an uneasy coalition of shades of political opinions with
one uniting aim -independence.

Now that they are having to face the cold, harsh reality that that aim is low on
the priority list of the Scottish electorate -and getting lower with each
passing election-they simply do not know in which direction to turn.

As it stands, it would take a political genius to bring any kind of coherence to
the SNP.

There are some brave realistic souls within the party who whisper that it may be
time to accept that Scotland has now settled for devolution and wants no more
and that the real work is to recalibrate the SNP into a left-of-centre party
campaigning for more powers for Holyrood.

But such talk is regarded as pure Quisling-like betrayal by many in the party
who hang on to their romantic tartan-wrapped dream against all the available
evidence.

Mr Swinney may turn out, in the long term, to be only the first SNP leader who
failed to answer the conundrum which devolution has set for the party. Maybe,
indeed, there is no answer to it and others are set to fail trying.

The Nationalist agony represents a massive opportunity for the Scottish
Conservatives to turn the political debate in Scotland away from the
independence/devolution obsession of the past 30 years and back to the claims of
Left and Right to have the answers to Scotland's economic and social problems.

Already there are the green shoots of Conservative recovery beginning to appear
north of the border.

Without the intervention of the UK Independence Party in Scotland the Tories
would have come ahead of the SNP in this month's European elections.

The worst irony for the SNP in its present directionless state may turn out to
be that it is the Scottish Conservatives, and not them, who have gained most
from devolution.

A new Nationalist leader may not be able to alter that. The tectonic plates will
have moved decisively.


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 22, 2004, Tuesday

Brown puts ambition on hold as Blair leads EU fight

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 436 words

GORDON Brown put his ambition to be prime minister on hold yesterday when he
acknowledged publicly that Tony Blair would lead the campaign for a Yes vote in
a referendum on the European constitution expected after the next general
election.

As the opening shots were fired in a battle that could last for two years, Mr
Brown rejected the suggestion that Mr Blair could not win a referendum because
he was no longer trusted by the voters.

Asked whether a Yes vote would be more likely if "Prime Minister Brown" was in
charge, the Chancellor told BBC radio: "It's Prime Minister Blair and he's
already said he's leading this campaign."

If, as expected, the referendum is delayed until after the election -
provisionally planned for next May - it could mean Mr Blair staying on for
another two years.

Under EU rules, the referendum must be held by the end of 2006, but Downing
Street yesterday refused to set a timetable for the plebiscite.

Mr Blair gave every impression of relishing the opportunity to join battle with
opponents of closer European integration. This was despite Labour's drubbing in
the European elections at the hands of the Tories and the UK Independence Party,
which wants to pull out of the EU.

Delivering a robust defence of the treaty negotiated in Brussels, he said it
demolished the "myths" about Britain surrendering sovereignty to a federal
superstate. He told MPs the treaty made clear that Europe was "not a superstate,
not a federal state, but a group of nations".

"Myths" that the constitution would force Britain to join the euro, give up its
United Nations Security Council seat and hand over control of its armed forces,
taxes, oil and foreign policy to Brussels had been "demolished".

Although Mr Blair claimed a "new Europe" was taking shape, he received a blunt
reminder of the power of "old Europe".

Germany joined France in insisting that Britain and other countries that were
not members of the euro should be barred from putting forward candidates for the
EU's top jobs.

As more countries join the single currency, it could leave Britain isolated on
the margins of the EU and allow France and Germany considerable influence over
the EU's machinery.

Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, committed his party to playing a
prominent role in the No campaign.

Calling for the referendum to be held now, he said the new constitution would be
"bad for our democracy, bad for jobs and bad for Britain".

He said that the treaty would remove Britain's veto in 43 new areas of policy,
allowing Brussels to impose policies against the will of the British Parliament.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              45 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 22, 2004, Tuesday

Both Blair and Howard must listen to the people

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 19

LENGTH: 467 words

Battle lines in Westminster had been drawn long before last week's Brussels
summit cobbled together the final draft of Giscard d'Estaing's constitution for
Europe. Yesterday's skirmish between Tony Blair and Michael Howard in the
Commons was only the opening shot in what promises to be a long war of
attrition, before a referendum that is, in all probability, still two years
away. Though the British people are instinctively distrustful of the EU, as the
European elections showed, the public imagination has yet to be caught by the
constitutional debate. Even so, it was heartening to see Parliament at last
getting to grips with the great political issue of our time. The British have
long been far more Euro-sceptical than their politicians. Has that penny dropped
yet?

Not if the party leaders have anything to do with it. Up there on the world
stage, the Prime Minister assured the House, the British view of Europe is seen
as triumphant. Having improved a treaty (his refusal to call it a constitution
is quite deliberate) that is welcomed by all 25 member states, he would take his
stand against the "narrow nationalism" of the Conservatives, whose policy of
"renegotiation" he depicts as a euphemism for withdrawal. Mr Blair hopes to
provoke tensions in the Tory ranks, where some make no secret of their Ukip
tendencies.

Over to Mr Howard, whose spirited reply scored several palpable hits. There was
indeed support for the British view of Europe, he declared, but what a pity that
Mr Blair had not put it. The issue was not about whether Britain should be in or
out of the EU, but what kind of Europe we wanted.

Neither Mr Blair nor Mr Howard seems to have understood the depths of popular
discontent. The "narrow nationalism" that the Prime Minister caricatures so
patronisingly is, more often than not, what most of us call patriotism. And Mr
Howard must know that the Europe of nation states he promises is just not on
offer. His promise to renegotiate will carry no weight unless it is backed by a
credible threat to withdraw altogether.

The party leaders certainly do not own this debate. Yesterday, Mr Blair tried
his old game of quoting Lord Heseltine against the Tory line. Meanwhile, Chris
Patten was berating Gordon Brown for his "extremely negative" attitude to
Europe, while Frank Field was denouncing Mr Blair as a "liability", and a new
group, "Labour against a Superstate", emerged, claiming the support of 100
backbenchers. They insist, not implausibly, that most Labour voters agree with
them on Europe, rather than with Mr Blair. Labour, no less than the
Conservatives, will have to fight this campaign on two fronts. And both will
have to reckon with the people of England that, as Chesterton said, have not
spoken yet. If and when they do, the game will be up.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              46 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 22, 2004, Tuesday

Livingstone slapped down in bid to appoint crony

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 19

LENGTH: 112 words

Last week, I revealed Ken Livingstone's attempt to get Toby Harris - the
defeated Labour London Assembly member - appointed to the Metropolitan Police
Authority as an independent.

But just hours after London's mayor read the Telegraph over his cornflakes, he
was duly rebuked for his actions.

"The assembly voted to condemn Ken's attempt to have David Blunkett put Harris
on the MPA," I'm told. "It decided to write to Blunkett setting out this view,
so the matter should now be closed once and for all."

The motion - which united the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats, Greens and Ukip
- was carried with 18 votes and only seven dissenters (all Labour, of course).

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              47 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 22, 2004

PM IS BEING GIVEN A 'GOOD KICKING' FOR NOT LISTENING

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 151 words


RICHARD Madeley believes that no matter what Tony Blair does these days he can't
win ("Why poor Mr Blair gets a good kicking from every direction", June 19).

Mr Blair, like any politician should, is getting that 'good kicking' because he
is not listening to the electorate and he is not delivering on his promises.

We can celebrate D-Day and the help America gave us then without having to agree
with everything the US does today.

That is not being fickle, as Richard suggests.

Only Ukip seems to be talking about withdrawal from the EU. The Tories want us
to be in Europe and involved, but not to the extent that unelected eurocrats are
running our country.

Compromises work both ways.

France and Germany should allow us our 'red lines' in the same way we are
prepared to let them forge ahead if they want. This should not be a
one-size-fits-all regime.

RM Auton, Doncaster

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              48 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 22, 2004

Polciy & Politics: Labour's Euro rebels ready to take on Blair: Fifth column set
for rerun of 1975 - with the Nos likely to win

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 507 words


When Tony Blair starts to fight for the EU constitution against the combined
forces of the Conservative party, Ukip and the bulk of Fleet Street, he will
face a small but determined fifth column on his own backbenches.

As in 1975, when Harold Wilson's last Labour government sought to resolve the
divisive question of Europe through a referendum, some backbenchers and - more
discreetly - some ministers reject the project. "There will be 20 or 30 of us,
though other MPs who say they will support us have no good reason to ruin their
ministerial prospects right now when the referendum may never come to pass,"
said Ian Davidson, provisional chairman of Labour Against a Superstate.

From the left the key players include Mr Davidson, 53-year-old MP for Glasgow
Pollok since 1992, and John Cryer, MP for Hornchurch in Essex who shares the
Euro-views of his mother, Ann Cryer MP, and late father, Bob Cryer MP, a close
ally of Dennis Skinner.

Further to the right on most issues, but also willing to put their heads above
the parapet, are the likes of Frank Field, the veteran social security expert,
Kate Hoey, and Roger Godsiff, the MP for Birmingham.

The big difference when voters get what Ms Hoey calls "their first chance to
have a say since 1975" is that the big money will be in the No camp: then the
Yes lobby included the leaders of all the main par ties, rising stars like
Margaret Thatcher and James Goldsmith, and most of the media. They used their
clout as ruthlessly as the Nos will this time.

Against them were Trotskyites, Greens, a section of the anti-capitalist Labour
left, including seven dissenting cabinet ministers led by Michael Foot, and
assorted rightwingers.

Similar outlines can be detected today. Then as now the antis are more divided
than the centrists who dominate the Yes camp. In pre-Thatcher 1975, supporters
of Tony Benn urged a siege economy approach, while his fellow cabinet minister
Peter Shore wanted a free market-plus- Commonwealth solution to Britain's acute
economic ills.

Since then many No voters on the left have switched sides, famously so in EU
commissioner Neil Kinnock's case, though his old enemy Ken Livingstone also
changed. So did Denis MacShane, now minister for Europe.

Mr Skinner, Denzil Davies, Gwyneth Dunwoody and Austin Mitchell, sceptics in the
70s, all remain so. But they have differing analyses. Mr Davidson's main concern
yesterday was for the protection and enhancement of workers' rights and
opportunities against "the bosses' Europe".

The former sports minister Ms Hoey railed against "any more integration which
makes it easier to take powers away from parliament. We are not all nutters,
extremists or xenophobes".

Mr Field, MP for Birkenhead and a market-oriented moderniser, dismisses the EU
model as "backward-looking, a 1940s perspective when we believed central
planning could solve our problems. If we can only derail this constitution I
can't imagine countries subjected to communism for 50 years will embrace
Brussels."


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 22, 2004, Tuesday

MPS CLAIM OPINION POLLS ARE USED TO FIX' ELECTIONS

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 236 words


THE LABOUR Party chairman, Ian McCartney, is to hold cross-party talks over
allegations that opinion polls are being used to "fix" election results.

MPs who want stricter regulation of opinion surveys will use a Commons debate on
the postal ballot fiasco today to raise their concerns about the way that polls
were allegedly manipulated on "super Thursday".

One cabinet minister claimed that opinion polls for the European elections
suggesting that the UK Independence Party was running neck-and-neck with Labour
and the Tories could have cost Labour some seats in the European Parliament.

"We can't prove that we lost seats because of the polls, but we lost a couple of
seats by only a few hundred votes and the boost given in the polls for UKIP
could have had an effect," said the minister.

Barry Sheerman, a senior Labour backbencher, protested to the Prime Minister
about the breakdown of self-regulation for the pollsters. Mr Sheerman, chairman
of the Commons Select Committee on Education, has tabled a Commons motion signed
by 63 MPs claiming that the polls are being fixed. The MPs allege that modern
polling techniques are being used to produce results favoured by the newspapers
and broadcasters who commission them. The pollsters deny collusion.

The MPs want the Government to conduct an investigation into the "integrity,
honesty and professionalism of the polling industry".

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              50 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 22, 2004, Tuesday

LEADING ARTICLE: AFTER SEVEN LONG YEARS, THE PRIME MINISTER COMES OUT FIGHTING
FOR THE EUROPEAN CAUSE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 674 words


AT LONG last, after seven years in government, the Prime Minister has come out
fighting wholeheartedly for Europe. In the Commons yesterday, he defended the
European constitution with vigour, rebutting all the hoary old Eurosceptic
objections before the Opposition had had even half a chance to voice them. It
was an aggressive performance during which we saw Mr Blair at his committed and
campaigning best. Anyone looking less like the hang-dog Neville Chamberlain
returning from Munich with his prized piece of paper - the comparison made at
the weekend by Robert Kilroy- Silk of the UK Independence Party - would be hard
to imagine.

We rejoice that Mr Blair has finally decided to present the case for the
European Union, and Britain's place in it, as though his political life depended
on it - which, in a sense, it does. But we cannot help also regretting that he
has not deployed his barrister's training and talents to make the same case to
similar effect long before now. Our relief that, finally, a real debate about
Europe has been joined is tempered with memories of opportunities lost.

If only Mr Blair had shown more courage in presenting the case for Europe, not
just in the Commons habitat that suits him so well, but in television studios,
open meetings and discussion forums around the country, he might not now be
contemplating the pitched battle that undoubtedly lies ahead. In the seven years
that the Labour Government has been in office, the bases of the incipient Europe
debate have moved further and further in a sceptical, if not outright negative,
direction. And this has happened not because the sceptics have made their case
so conclusively, but because their arguments have not been answered, because
until now there has been no real debate.

It was instructive to see and hear Mr Blair on top form in the Commons
yesterday, because everything about his performance served to remind us of what
we had been missing. What was billed a statement on the European summit was, in
fact, nothing of the kind. The Prime Minister led off as he meant to go on,
taking the argument to the sceptics and demolishing their points one by one.

The new constitution, Mr Blair said, explicitly states that the European Union
is "not a super-state ... but a group of nations". The treaty, he went on,
"keeps unanimity for the most important decisions and, at our insistence, in
particular for tax, social security, for foreign policy, for defence and for
decisions on the financing of the Union affecting the British budget
contribution". The Charter of Rights, he said, expressly ruled out establishing
any new power or task for the European Union or any change in the powers of the
EU. And he concluded, triumphantly, that the EU was "the most successful way
anyone has yet devised of managing relations between European countries whose
national rivalries had, until 60 years ago, only ever been settled in a series
of bloody conflicts".

Now this is more like it. We would like to hear a lot more along these lines
from Mr Blair and his ministers in the coming months. And by ministers, we mean
all his ministers, including the Chancellor, Gordon Brown. The crying shame is
that we have been treated to so little fighting talk on Europe from this
government before. As voters, we have become all too used to the warnings of
those who are either suspicious of Europe, or simply hostile. Unusually, the
Opposition leader was reduced to platitudes - "bad for our democracy, bad for
jobs and bad for Britain" - that hardly dignified his considerable legal
prowess.

Sadly, this is the level of discourse at which Mr Blair may now have to take the
debate nationwide. Too much time and too many arguments have been lost by
neglect to leave anything to chance. Mr Blair must also take his case to the
many voters whose trust he has lost over the disaster of Iraq. Like it or not,
this is a burden that he will carry into the argument about Europe, and one that
he would have been infinitely better off without.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              51 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 22, 2004, Tuesday

TONY BLAIR HAS BOTH THE ARGUMENTS AND THE PASSION TO WIN THIS REFERENDUM

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1160 words


The leading Eurosceptics are self-confident, articulate and, most important of
all, available. They stand to attention and come to Britain's defence most hours
of the day, seven days a week. Yet prod the protective shield they are erecting
around this island and the seemingly formidable defence starts to crumble.

Over the last few days they have deployed their sweeping assertions and
generalisations. The more nervy pro-Europeans have wondered whether to run for
cover. Then nothing has happened. Very quickly the sceptics have run out of
ammunition.

This surprises me. At the very least I had assumed that opponents of the revised
EU constitution would read every word and come up with formidably intimidating
examples of where power had shifted away from Britain. In return, I had
suspected those of us who were in favour of formalising the working arrangements
of an enlarged EU, would be the ones dependent on generalities:

"Well, yes we have lost quite a lot of power over this, but it is worth it
because we support an enlarged EU... That is what happens when countries work
together. You want to talk about the section on page 236 of the constitution? I
would love to, but I must be off." Instead it is the pro-Europeans that are
happy to talk about page 236, the details of the argument.

Let us be honest. This has not always been the case on issues relating to
Europe. Opponents of the euro tended to have the details on their side while
supporters deployed the generalities. I recall a lunch attended by Roy Jenkins
shortly before he died. One of the other guests was the former Treasury
Minister, Geoffrey Robinson. During an exchange about the euro, Mr Robinson
deployed a range of forensic arguments against early entry - the exchange rate,
the consequences of a sudden fall in interest rates to bring about a contrived
convergence, the impact on employment, the possible disruption of Gordon Brown's
spending plans. I sat back and waited for a detailed response from the great
European statesman. Lord Jenkins paused, looked up with a slight air of
irritation and declared: "If we thought like that we would never go in". He had
hit back with a generality.

Now it is the supporters of the constitution who are armed with the details.
Over the last few days the opponents have been out in force, but with shallow
arguments. The leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party, Roger Knapman,
was asked on the BBC to give a single example of a power that Britain had lost
as a result of the constitution. He cited the supremacy of European law. This
sounded sinister and alarming until the Liberal Democrats foreign affairs
spokesman, Menzies Campbell, pointed out that this had been the case since the
Treaty of Rome.

Over the weekend the former Foreign Secretary, Malcolm Rifkind, was also asked
to give an example of a single policy over which Britain had lost power. He said
he would be "happy to do so" and then proceeded not to do so. Instead he warned
that the constitution had the "appearance" of a superstate with a president.
That qualification was important. The Euro-sceptics are getting worried about an
appearance, not what is behind it.

Their alternative positions are familiar. UKIP want to pull out, a view that a
big majority of voters opposes. The Conservatives seek a renegotiation of
Britain's terms of membership, although no other member state supports their
position. As Michael Heseltine observed in an attempt to be as helpful as
possible to Michael Howard, this was a policy that would hang together in
opposition and fall apart in government.

The stance of Labour's Eurosceptics is even less credible. To take one example,
Frank Field and Kate Hoey have urged Mr Blair to hold the referendum before the
general election. They suggest that as the voters regard Mr Blair as arrogant it
would do him some good to lose. The idea that Mr Blair would receive a
pre-election boost from losing a referendum seems a little fanciful. But it is
typical of the casual thinking, the loose arguments of those who oppose the
constitution.

The opponents of a constitution have been crying out for a referendum for more
than a year on the assumption that one would never be held. It is now clearer to
me that Mr Blair has called their bluff by agreeing to hold one. He made the
U-turn in a context of acute weakness, but that does not mean he cannot win.

A referendum on the euro would be risky at any time, susceptible to
unpredictable fluctuating movements in the British economy or those that form
the Eurozone. In my view there will be no such referendum until the Conservative
party supports the euro. Indeed I have long believed that it will be a
Conservative government that takes us into the euro. Michael Heseltine holds the
same view. He has told Michael Howard, only a little mischievously, that if Mr
Howard becomes Prime Minister his historic achievement would be to take Britain
into the euro.

The constitution is different, a set of rules that enables a large number of
countries with some common interests and aspirations to work together reasonably
well. Yesterday Denis MacShane, who is in the novel position of being a Europe
Minister who understands Europe, published an illuminating anthology of
statements from other European leaders and European newspapers. The recently
elected Spanish prime minister has declared unequivocally "Europe is and will be
a union of states". The Polish president has said that the treaty "does not mean
the creation of a new state of Europe". In France the newspaper, Le Figaro,
concludes that this was a victory of the nation states over a European super
state.

So much so that pro-Europeans in Britain have already lost out to some extent.
As Shirley Williams pointed out on the World at One yesterday, she would have
preferred fewer red lines than those imposed by the British government. Like
Baroness Williams, the President of the EU Commission, Romano Prodi, laments the
fact that because of Britain, countries retain the right of veto in areas such
as foreign affairs.

In most of Britain the outcome is viewed entirely differently, an act of
betrayal and a sell-out. Winning a Yes vote is a big challenge, but not as big
as it seems. Mr Blair was at his best in the Commons yesterday, winning the
arguments, exposing the absurdities of the Conservatives' position. He is always
commanding in the Commons on the issue of Europe. If voters watched the live
televised proceedings they would have been converted by now.

Oddly Mr Blair is not regarded as a great parliamentarian, even though he is a
supreme Commons' performer. How does he present a similar case to the rest of
the country, maintaining momentum up until a referendum in possibly two years'
time? This is an important question, but is posed in a rosy context. The
Eurosceptics are far more confident than they deserve to be.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              52 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 22, 2004

HERE ARE 8 REAL EURO MYTHS, MR BLAIR

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, political editor

LENGTH: 342 words


Constitution is blueprint for EU superstate

TONY BLAIR says he is looking forward to a "battle between reality and myth"
over the new EU superstate.

We will hear more of this as he tries to persuade voters to suspend their
disbelief over the EU Constitution.

But if anyone is peddling porkies, it is the PM himself. Here are ten for
starters.

MYTH: The PM claimed last week The Sun wants the UK to quit the EU. FACT: We are
critical of Brussels but have always argued for continued membership and have
repudiated the UK Independence Party's call for withdrawal.

MYTH: Tony Blair claims three million British jobs depend on EU membership.FACT:
We buy more goods and services from Europe than vice-versa. The EU would lose
most if we quit.

MYTH: Tony Blair claims we have the EU to thank for "jobs, prosperity and
stability." FACT: Our unemployment rate has fallen below five per cent - half
the European average.

MYTH: Unless we join the euro, our economy will suffer. FACT: Since we were
bundled out of single currency preparations in 1992, Britain has enjoyed a
record 12 straight years of growth.

MYTH: Europe has healthier economic productivity. FACT: UK economic output is
Pounds 16,440 per head of population, against Germany's Pounds 15,904 and
France's Pounds 15,522.

MYTH: We must follow Europe by giving unions a place on boards and more power in
the workplace.FACT: The British economy is the world's fourth largest thanks to
painful workplace reform - opposed by Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.

MYTH: The European Union is responsible for 60 years of peace in Europe.FACT:
US-led Nato is responsible for bringing down the Berlin Wall. US nuclear power -
opposed by Labour - ended the Cold War.

MYTH: The Sun slanders Brussels as a bureaucratic madhouse which makes up daft
rules like "straight bananas." FACT: The EU issued a directive dictating limits
for curvature of bananas. "They must be free from abnormal curvature of the
fingers," (Commission Regulation 2257, Quality Standards for Bananas).


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              53 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 22, 2004

ARROGANT BLAIR BETRAYED US ALL OVER EU SUPERSTATE

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 318 words


AN overwhelming majority of Sun readers who phoned our EU The Jury poll are
against Britain signing the European Constitution. A massive 98 per cent say
they don't want it. But Tony Blair faced a choice between surrendering Britain's
vetoes or fighting to retain them and scuppering the treaty. Readers are
furious.

LABOUR gets absolutely hammered in the Euro elections and Tony Blair responds by
selling us out to the EU.

And he has the cheek to say this is a listening government. He is deaf to all
our views.

Now he has surrendered much of Britain's heritage and way of life to an EU
superstate. He is a disgrace.

DENISE HOGG

Aberdeen

IF Tony Blair wants to continue selling us out to Europe he should reconsider
his position as Prime Minister. He is there to represent the people - not betray
them.

ALAN HEMMINGS

Edinburgh

JUST how does Blair reckon he can convince us to back this flawed treaty when he
knows we are all against joining a Euro superstate in the first place? He is
living in cloud cuckoo land.

JOHN DAVIDSON

Hamilton

BLAIR will never be able to sell this Euro deal to us - we have been caught by
too many duff deals in the past to trust him.

He must now realise he has made a fundamental blunder and the safest course of
action is to resign.

JOHN MAIR

Kirkcaldy, Fife

I WAS shocked to read the extent of the corruption in the EU. It was far worse
than I suspected and surely is another nail in Blair's coffin against becoming
further involved.

To make matters worse he is now talking of postponing our referendum. We need to
be consulted now.

JOE MONRO

Brechin

HOW can Tony Blair rubbish the UK Independence Party when he, and he alone, is
determined to ride roughshod over the electorate's views on Europe? The man is
nothing more than a dictator - but he has been caught out on this issue.

C NEIL

Motherwell


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              54 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 22, 2004, Tuesday

Continent sees the constitution as a victory for British sabotage

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 553 words


EUROPE is all a matter of perspective. For most people on the other side of the
Channel, the European constitution is a victory for Tony Blair and a good deal
for Britain. Yet to read many British papers, and to listen to Michael Howard in
the Commons yesterday, you would think that Mr Blair had signed up to a European
superstate. The two sides are a long way apart.

The continental viewpoint is revealing in its unanimity. Le Figaro noted that Mr
Blair had used his veto to halt French and German plans to extend qualified
majority voting to taxation and social security. "This is one of the great
paradoxes of the EU: its most sceptial member has the upper hand."

In Belgium, La Libre Belgique asked: "Why did you join the Union, other than to
sabotage it?" The Italian daily Il Corriere della Sera said that the British had
"succeeded once again in slowing down and diluting the process of integration".

In much of the British debate, fear predominates over compromise, to judge by
many of the alarmist, and occasionally downright misleading, comments since last
Friday. Yet perception will carry more votes in a referendum than reality.

Mr Howard condemned the deal as bad for democracy, bad for jobs and bad for
Britain. His opposition rallied most Tory MPs. Senior party members will hope
that Mr Howard's strong words and vigorous action will win back the support of
former Tories who voted for the UK Independence Party on June 10.

We are now in for a long battle of attrition. First, after the constitution is
produced in its final form this autumn, legislation will be put through
Parliament over the winter. Despite some exaggerated claims of support by Labour
antis, the Government should have no trouble in getting the Bill through the
Commons after Charles Kennedy reaffirmed Liberal Democrat support yesterday.
Secondly, the constitution will play a part, although probably not a big one, in
next year's general election. Then, thirdly, there will be a referendum,
possibly after the end of the British presidency in the spring of 2006.

Winning a referendum will be very hard, as Mr Blair acknowledged yesterday. At
present voters are clearly against, but there is a lot of ignorance about what
is in the constitution. The battle will not just be about the threats claimed by
the Tories and the sceptics, but also about what the benefits are. Why should
people bother to vote? The pro side's real problem is to show that the
constitution is worth all the fuss.

Success will depend on ministers consistently making the case for the
constitution. The key development yesterday was Gordon Brown's intervention to
back the deal because Britain had won on taxes, fiscal policy and economic
governance. He pledged his support for an all-party "yes" campaign led by Mr
Blair, who, he said, "is, and will remain, Prime Minister".

How all-party will a "yes" campaign be? Mr Kennedy has argued that the campaign
should not just be dominated by Mr Blair, in view of all the public scepticism
about Downing Street spin. Unlike the 1975 referendum, however, only a handful
of older Tories are likely to be involved. Even business is more sceptical than
it was. So it is likely to be mainly a Lab-Lib Dem effort, requiring all the
persuasive powers of Mr Kennedy and Mr Blair.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              55 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 22, 2004, Tuesday

Labour Eurosceptics plan their assault

BYLINE: Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 199 words


BACKBENCH Labour MPs met last night to plan an assault on the European
constitution, which they say is opposed by nearly a quarter of the parliamentary
party.

Members of Labour Against a Superstate, the provisional name for the group,
which will be the main Eurosceptic voice within the Labour Party, said they were
willing to join the Conservatives and the UKIP in the referendum campaign on the
constitutional treaty.

A steering group of about a dozen backbenchers was planning its campaign launch
at a meeting in Westminster last night. It also intends to set up a left-wing
Eurosceptic thinktank, to be called the Centre for a Social Europe.

Ian Davidson, the group's leader, claimed he had names of between 80 and 100 MPs
opposed to the plans, although ministers have cast doubt on whether the figure
is anywhere near as high. The biggest Labour rebellion on Europe during this
Parliament last July attracted 15 votes.

Mr Davidson said: "Being critical of a Governmentsupported policy isn't a
career-enhancing move, and therefore people are not going to be outing
themselves at this stage." He said the group's supporters included several
front-bench ministers.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 22, 2004, Tuesday

The battle of the boxes

SECTION: Features; 30

LENGTH: 1506 words


Can speed cameras be justified as guardians of road safety, or are they just
highway robbers?

THE authorities seem determined to show that speed alone causes deaths and
serious injuries. There is surely a wide range of possible causes: driver
inexperience, poor road quality, weather conditions, a driver under the
influence or poor vehicle maintenance. The Chief Constable of Durham, no less,
has indicated that speed was an issue in only about 6 per cent of accidents.

One thing is beyond doubt -the obstruction raised to anyone trying to determine
the relative contributions of each of the above causes in accidents. While not
condoning speeding, I am more concerned about the lack of rigour in the
statistics presented to the public.

Geoff Tuffnell, g.tuffnell@ntlworld.com

Driven to distraction.

THE Government report begs the question "Why have speed cameras saved only 100
lives?" Considering how much motorists have slowed down since speeding was
demonised by the police and Government, what this report really shows is how
relatively unimportant speeding is.

Driving with the constant threat of unknown speed cameras and uncertain speed
limits is stress-inducing, and a distraction from good anticipatory driving. Too
much time is spent looking in hedgerows for cameras and road signs, while we are
forced to give unnecessarily precise attention to the speedometer.

Peter Fox, Bromley, Kent.

Do the maths.

KINETIC energy is equal to the product of one half the mass and velocity
squared.

In other words, death is proportional to the square of the speed. Double the
speed, quadruple the destruction.

This is an inescapable fact. To claim that speed cameras are only there to make
money is to ignore the laws of physics. I would display a rear window notice
that read: "Observing the speed limit" if one were available. Some tailgaters
might be able to read.

John C. E. Potter, Southbourne, Bournemouth.

The law is the law.

THE only "wrong" place for a speed camera is where nobody is breaking the speed
limit. To say that some places are wrong is to say that it is right, in some
places, to break the law. Would the police then tell me which traffic lights I
am at liberty to disobey, which shopfronts may be used as lavatories after pub
closing time, which houses one is permitted to burgle and which people I can
maim, or at least frighten out of their wits. But we know this already:
pedestrians and cyclists. Especially cyclists.

Chris Juden, chris@judens.co.uk

Street legal.

IF THE maximum speed limit in the UK is a strict 70 mph, then why is it legal to
buy a vehicle which can travel in excess of this speed -unless there is a vested
interest in tempting us to drive faster?

John Daly, Bolton.

Half-truths and statistics.

THE Government will always quote statistics selectively to justify a policy
under scrutiny. I know -I briefed ministers on road safety policy for more than
15 years.

Cameras are only justified where there is a record of fatal and serious
casualties taken over a rolling five-year average, and when they are used to
detect dangerous or reckless driving as well as enforcing speed limits. Using
casualty figures on the basis of a single year will always give an inaccurate
result. Our overall casualty rate is one of the lowest in Europe, but our
pedestrian casualty rate is one of the highest. It follows logically that the
most effective use of speed cameras is in cities, towns and villages where
drivers will not observe a safe speed for the conditions.

When making its selective claims for cameras over the past three years, the
Government should also produce the overall casualty figures for the country. The
reason it does not is because there is no significant improvement.

Better methods are now available, but governments and police forces prefer a
share in £68 million to casualty reduction.Both bodies need to recognise that
the majority of drivers are responsible citizens who do not deserve fines,
penalty points and disqualification for relatively minor driving offences.

Ronnie G. Trouton, President of the Road Safety Council for Northern Ireland,
1997-2000, Portadown.

Tru threat.

THE survey into the operation of speed cameras makes no differentiation between
the Gatso, which films from behind the car, and the Truvelo, which films from in
front. The Truvelo has all the characteristics which antagonise motorists.

Approaching a Truvelo there are no white distance markers which motorists have
come to expect as a warning to make minor speed adjustments; the car is filmed
before it passes the camera and not after, which takes minor transgressors by
surprise, and it does not deter speeding motorcyclists as they display no front
number plate. Because a Truvelo flashes in the face of a driver at a range of 15
metres, there are serious concerns that it may actually cause accidents by
dazzling drivers after dark.

An examination of Truvelo results will show that they are extremely good for
catching motorists a fraction above the speed limit, and for nothing else.

J. Ivelaw-Chapman, Cheddington, Bedfordshire.

Give a warning.

RECENTLY a number of police forces were advised of diesel spillages. Such
spillages are, as you will appreciate, likely to cause any motorcyclist to lose
control with serious consequences. The responses from the police were very poor.

In one case where they did nothing about it at all, a safety camera partnership
mobile van was in operation just 100 yards from the spillage-proving to me that
their chief interest was in the money they were generating.

All that is needed to soften the public opinion on cameras is for the first
offence to receive a written warning. Such an approach would demonstrate
unequivocally that the cameras were for safety rather than to generate revenue.

Paul Wilkinson, user@wilkinson9755.fsnet.co.uk

Enemies of the people.

THE proliferation of CCTV and speed cameras is part of a general malaise in
which politicians impose their will on the people without their consent. This
engenders resentment -no wonder so many speed cameras get vandalised. In recent
months speed cameras have reproduced at an alarming rate. It is a system for
squeezing maximum revenue from the people with the least effort on the part of
the authorities. Issues such as this have made the electorate feel powerless and
so acidly reject politics or vote for the UKIP. Use of speed cameras and their
ilk is undemocratic and should be suspended until a referendum can be held in
each county council area.

Peter Lucas, Christchurch, Dorset.

Braking point.

I KNOW of two incidents involving speed cameras that have caused accidents. One
of them resulted in the death of a motorcyclist on the A316 near Twickenham a
few years ago, where violent braking ahead of the camera resulted in a
collision.

There is always a lot of late braking before speed cameras -skid marks on roads
provide evidence across the country. If a camera causes only one accident,
surely it should go?

Robin Bartlett, London, W1.

Signalling danger.

THE most dangerous thing on the roads is the proliferation of road signs and
speed bumps. A driver is presented with so many signs in such a short distance
that it is almost impossible to concentrate on actually driving.

In one part of rural northern Lincolnshire there are 12 signs approaching one
roundabout. It is very difficult to observe pedestrian activity when confronted
with this battery of signs. Limited road signs and, perhaps, the odd camera at
strategic points would reduce accidents.

David Simmonds, dsim@classicfm.net

Once bitten ...

I WAS caught doing 36mph by a speed camera on the A23 at Brixton Hill. I was
angry only with myself for getting caught by a camera I was well aware of. The
authorities are perfectly entitled to use electronic means to enforce the law
especially if it means that officers can be deployed to protect us and our
possessions instead. Still, I would like to apologise to anyone stuck behind me
at 30 mph. I am trying to form a habit that prevents me from acquiring any more
points on my licence.

Peter Young, Brixton, London SW2.

Follow the leaders.

YESTERYEAR, traffic police were obliged to follow a driver at an even distance
for three tenths of a mile to prove a consistent disregard of the speed limit
before a prosecution could be considered. Modern stand-alone cameras are too
unforgiving, and figures show drivers have now been relieved of £68 million for
the 100 lives allegedly saved.

Where does this money go? While councils find money to build vehicle-damaging
speed bumps, they seem to find little cash from the revenue to fill potholes and
worn-out road surfaces. Why can't we learn from America and have variable,
illuminated speed limits which operate at school leaving times at crossing
points? First we should accept that other countries are much better at this than
we are!

Bill Havers, Cheshire


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 21, 2004

blair is 'running scared' over eu

BYLINE: PAUL EASTHAM

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1593 words


TONY BLAIR was accused of running scared last night after he defied the growing
clamour for an immediate referendum on the EU Constitution.

As he nervously launched a battle to win approval for the historic and hugely
controversial document, he spoke of the need to separate 'myths from realities'
and hinted that he might not give the public a say until mid-2006.

At the same time, polls showed that public opinion had hardened against the
treaty even since it was unveiled on Friday.

And opponents prepared to relaunch their efforts this week with greater vigour
than ever. They include 1,000 business chiefs and up to 100 anti-European Labour
MPs.

In the Commons, Tory leader Michael Howard will today demand that Mr Blair moves
rapidly to a referendum, telling him that he has ignored the message of the
British people who voted Labour into third place in the Euro-elections.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram yesterday said: 'Tony Blair is running
scared of the British people because he knows they will say no.

'It's in the interests of both Britain and Europe that the position should be
clarified as soon as possible by a referendum.' He said the constitution was
'highly damaging' to the interests of the UK, and added: 'It is a gateway to a
country called Europe.' Robert Kilroy-Silk, whose UK Independence party did so
well in the poll, said the Premier was 'clearly in panic mode about talking to
the British people about Europe'.

The MEP and former TV presenter told the BBC's Breakfast With Frost that Mr
Blair should hold an immediate vote. 'He's going to lose it that's why he won't
have it now.

'What are we waiting for? He wants a debate. Let's start that debate now.'

Mr Kilroy-Silk likened Mr Blair to Neville Chamberlain, Prime Minister at the
start of World War II.

'He's waving a piece of paper saying, "It's OK, I've only given a little bit
away of our sovereignty", when in fact this is the beginning of the end of
Britain as a nation state governing itself.' As he unveiled the treaty at the
Brussels summit, Mr Blair declared it a 'good deal for Britain and a good deal
for Europe'. He claimed to have protected all of Britain's 'Red Line' issues:
keeping its vetoes on economic policy, defence and foreign affairs.

It can opt out of majority decisions on cross-border criminal matters and social
security for migrant workers, Mr Blair said. But the Tories said he had given up
vetoes on 20 other areas of national life.

And the verdict of the public was emphatic. A YouGov poll for the Sunday Times
showed voters would reject the constitution by 49 per cent to 23 per cent.

An ICM opinion poll for the 'No' Campaign showed that 60 per cent of voters
would oppose the constitution if a referendum were held tomorrow. Only 26 per
cent would vote yes.

Britain and seven other EU countries are planning to hold referenda on whether
to accept the new constitution. If Britain alone says no and the other seven say
yes the entire community will almost certainly go ahead without us and make the
treaty law.

The UK would then face two choices: Leave the EU altogether an option which all
the main parties have so far ruled out; or go cap in hand to Brussels to
'renegotiate' the text in the hope of making it a bit more acceptable to the
voters.

One former Labour minister, Frank Field, said the European Constitution would be
very unpopular with Labour voters. He warned that Mr Blair could have made a
fundamental mistake and the issue of Europe could bring him down.

After seeing Mr Blair looking anxious and strained on Breakfast With Frost, he
added: 'Tony used to accuse eurosceptics of being swiveleyed extremists.

That's what he has become.' Accusing the PM of 'defending the indefensible', he
added: 'What people so object to with Mr Blair is his arrogance, his failure to
listen, always riding roughshod, always being cocky.' Privately Mr Blair has
admitted he never wanted the constitution or a referendum on it in the first
place.

His allies are still desperately hoping the treaty will be scuppered by a no
vote in at least one of the seven other national referenda, making it
unnecessary to have one in Britain.

On the Frost programme, the Prime Minister declared that there was 'absolutely
no need' to have a referendum straight away.

'Of course I know exactly why the UK Independence Party and the Conservative
Party want the referendum quickly, because they fear that the longer the debate
goes on, the more these myths will be exposed, and we don't have to ratify this
until the end of 2006.' Leaving the EU would be an 'act of foolishness', he
said.

But even as he spoke, powerful forces were marshalling themselves against him.
Within his own party around 100 Labour Eurosceptics are meeting today to form an
antitreaty campaign group, Labour Against a Superstate.

Last night the 'Vote No' campaign sent a letter to Mr Blair from 20 business
leaders accusing him of signing up to a structure which will 'harm our
prosperity and weaken our democracy'.

In another crucial setback, former Tory Deputy Premier Lord Heseltine said that
while he backed Mr Blair's stand on the constitution, after his bitter
experience in supporting the Premier over the euro he would never share a
platform with Mr Blair again.

Comment and Melanie Phillips:

The 'book of rules' THE Minister for Europe, Denis MacShane, was already
behaving as if the EU constitution was law last night, arrogantly describing it
as Europe's 'rule book'.

He said the 300 - page document, which has not even been written in its final
form, would boost Britain's world standing.

And from now on we would have to live by its rules.

'What we have now is a clear rule book which puts national governments and
parliaments in the driving seat.'

Political leadership The Yes Campaign is due to finalise its plans this week in
alliance with Tony Blair, Gordon Brown, Europe Minister Denis MacShane, Charles
Kennedy and Malcolm Bruce Rank and file: Most of the Labour and Liberal Democrat
parties plus dissident Tories including former Deputy Premier Lord Heseltine,
former Chancellor Kenneth Clarke and ardent Europhiles such as Ian Taylor and
David Curry, former Foreign Secretary Lord (Geoffrey) Howe of Aberavon and
Science Minister Lord Sainsbury of Turville Business supporters: British
Telecommunications plc; Dyson Appliances Ltd; former chairman of Northern Foods
and Labour Minister Lord Haskins of Skidby; former president of the CBI Sir
Bryan Nicholson; former director general of the CBI Adair Turner Celebrities:
Cross-dressing comedian Eddie Izzard Political leadership: The Vote No campaign
is due to relaunch this week in alliance with Michael Howard, UKIP's Robert
Kilroy-Silk and around 100 anti-European Labour MPs.

Supporters say they are building a network of 500 big names from business,
politics and showbusiness to support the campaign Rank and file: The
overwhelming majority of the Tory Party, the United Kingdom Independence Party
plus dissident Labour MPs such as former Sport Minister Kate Hoey and former
Welfare Reform Minister Frank Field Business supporters: Include Sir Anthony
Bamford, the JCB chairman; Lord Kalms, the president of the Dixons chainstore;
Sir Rocco Forte, the hotelier; Michael Spencer, chairman of the money broker
Icap; Simon Wolfson, chief executive of Next, the fashion chain; Roger Bootle,
the economist; Sir Crispin David, chief executive of Reed Elsevier the
publisher; Lord Sainsbury of Candover, the supermarket chain president. He is
the cousin of Science Minister Lord Sainsbury of Turville, who supports the Yes
campaign Celebrities: The No Campaign is expected to be fronted by a
non-political figure such as Bob Geldof The long timetable OFFICIALLY, Downing
Street says the national referendum will be called after legislation on the EU
constitution has completed its passage through Parliament.

But that means waiting for a Bill to go through both Houses.

A Bill to ratify the treaty will be introduced into Parliament in November
having possibly been announced in the Queen's Speech.

With so many Tory backbenchers threatening to tear it apart, the process could
take six months.

That strongly suggests there can be no referendum until after the general
election expected in May or June 2005.

Britain takes over the six-month rotating presidency of the rotating EU
Presidency in July 2005 and so it is unlikely that either Mr Blair or Michael
Howard would want a referendum during this busy period.

This means that a referendum is unlikely to be held until after February 2006 at
the earliest.

However Mr Blair has hinted that he plans to delay the vote even longer than
that.

He pointed out that the treaty does not have to be ratified until the end of
2006.

When it comes the campaign will last ten weeks.

The Premier told Sir David Frost yesterday that political debate over the new EU
constitution would be a 'battle between reality and myth'. But he would not be
rushed into holding a referendum.

He said opposition parties were pushing for a speedy public vote because they
feared their myths would be exposed during a long debate.

Critics said Mr Blair's remark suggested he had decided, like the Dickens
character Mr Micawber, to drag his feet over the vote in the hope that
'something would turn up'.

Mr Micawber, in David Copperfield, is an overoptimistic believer in schemes he
hopes will lead to fortune but end in disaster.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              58 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 21, 2004

Falconer, lord of nonsense

BYLINE: PETER MCKAY

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1521 words


COMMON sense suggests it would be unwise for a Prime Minister to select as his
Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs a man with
whom he once shared a flat, a crony without obvious qualifications for the job.

However, that's what happened when Tony Blair picked his lawyer friend Charlie
Falconer.

If Lord Falconer of Thoroton (as he became) possesses other qualities which
would commend him as a senior government minister to other premiers, these have
not come to light.

Neither has Falconer - a former minister for the Millennium Dome - ever felt it
necessary to put himself up for election to see if the electorate shares the
Prime Minister's confidence.

So it's fitting that the ministry he now runs has phased out any reference to
'common sense' in its latest advice to those selecting England and Wales's
28,000 magistrates.

A spokesman for Lord Falconer says: 'Common sense has been removed from the new
draft guidelines because it can mean different things to different people,
depending on their background.' Well, of course. To lawyers, common sense is an
abstract notion. They make their money by interpreting the law in their clients'
favour, not by using common sense.

For this Government, common sense is seen as an obstructive force. It's based on
settled opinions arrived at over centuries of experience and practice. They seek
a different Britain in which their all- change-isgood ideology prevails.

It is 'common sense' that informs most of us that a soccer lout tried, convicted
and jailed for two years for rioting in Portugal, who is sent home by a judge,
should be held in custody on his arrival until the necessary paperwork is
completed so that he can serve out his sentence here.

But when shaven-headed fireman Garry Mann, 46, appeared at Uxbridge Magistrates
Court (near Heathrow Airport) it was discovered his sentence in Portugal means
nothing here - because he had not actually begun to serve it there.

the usual, vacuous propaganda about Britain and Portugal co-operating to defeat
our soccer louts, this obvious legal loophole remained. Why? The lack of common
sense.

We're told the police are now seeking an order banning Mann from football
matches here and elsewhere in Europe. Even if they succeed, this isn't a real
punishment. He's obviously not a real soccer fan but a sociopath who can find
other outlets for his violence.

Mann also faces 'possible dismissal' after 24 years' service with the Kent Fire
and Rescue Service after 'an internal investigation'. Even if he does go - or,
chooses to 'retire' - it is likely he'll be carrying a large cheque.

Previously, committees assessing would-be magistrates looked for signs of 'sound
judgment' in applicants. This meant evidence of 'common sense' as well as an
'ability to think logically' and 'recognition of and setting aside of
prejudice'.

Falconer's officials have now set aside 'common sense' on the basis that it is
'subjective'.

But all of the qualities they seek in magistrates - good character,
understanding, social awareness and so forth - are subjective. Why set aside
common sense?

Perhaps because the Government knows that those who possess this rare quality
are the most likely to resist its tinkering reforms.

The 'rock' crumbles THE late Princess of Wales's 'rock' - butler Paul Burrell -
performed his one-man show at the Theatre Royal, London, last night.

Mr Burrell always said he'd never 'cash in'on his connections.

But he felt obliged 'to set the record straight' in books, articles and now a
stage show.

Perhaps a summer season beckons at one of our premier seaside resorts, or a
stage role capering in a Christmas panto. Maybe he'll have his own TV show.

When might he consider the record is finally straight?

Happily there's no hurry.

With our top policeman Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner,
engaged in his own Diana inquiry, and a new book due from royal author Noel
Botham entitled The Assassination Of Diana, Mr Burrell has a fulltime career
rebutting the statements of those he considers less informed than himself on the
Princess.

OUR latest soccer wonderboy, Wayne Rooney, 18, is reported to have 'banged in
two goals'against Switzerland and 'scored again with his lover'. According to
The Sun: 'The teenage sensation was smothered in kisses by blonde Colleen
McLoughlin and the pair went into extra time with a love match in the striker's
suite.' Unseemly detail, perhaps, but let's be thankful for small mercies. At
least Wayne didn't invite round the rest of the team.

Brickbats that won't stand in Howard's way TORY leader Michael Howard is the
subject of a peculiar, tendentious article in The Observer.

'When he was Home Secretary, why did the Conservative leader let a master
criminal walk free?' asks the paper.

The 'master criminal' concerned, heroin dealer John Haase, who is back in
prison, was released from a 18-year sentence in 1996 after serving just 11
months. He had been granted a royal pardon on the instructions of Mr Howard
after it was said that he and an associate Paul Bennett had become informants.

Haase knew Simon Bakerman, a small-time crook (also now in jail) who is said to
be a 'distant cousin' of Howard.

The Observer says Bakerman told journalists in 1997: 'I see Michael's mother all
the time.' His own mother, Freda, said that she 'phoned Mr Howard's mother three
or four times a week' and they were 'a very close family'.

The suggestion is that Mr Howard got Haase released because he was asked to do
so by a distant cousin, Bakerman.

Does it sound likely? The Observer admits: 'Mention the vague connection between
Haase and Howard's family and you plant the vague suggestion of favouritism
which is not nourished by a single shred of evidence.' Yet this 'vague
suggestion' is itself nourished by an enormous article, by Nick Cohen, on The
Observer's Comment pages. The headline, 'Howard's gangster rap', would suggest
to any reasonable person that he had once been in cahoots with hoodlums.

It reads like a GCSE student's parody of an investigative article, and ends with
the ludicrously sinister line: 'The story may go away but don't be surprised if
you hear more about it in the run-up to the election.' I hold no brief for
Michael Howard, but surely he deserves more professional scrutiny than this.

Handbags at dawn . . .

JOAN COLLINS is disappointed to read that Sir Elton John, whom she considers a
friend, has dismissed her support for the UKIP by saying on Radio 2: 'It's for
people of Joan Collins' age - it's for 80-year-olds.' (Miss Collins is 71 and
doesn't look her age, although one former beau, man-about-town 'Bungalow' Bill
Wiggins, remarked to a mutual friend: 'She does need a bit of ironing if you're
going out.') At 57, Sir Elton's no spring chicken, although he does his best to
look nice for us; he might need more restoration work when Miss Collins
(pictured above with Sir Elton) is finished plucking him.

Spellbound by a guru THE always-newsworthy erstwhile No. 10 lifestyle guru
Carole Caplin, 43, has a builder 'totally under her spell', we are told.

Tradesman Rod Wood, 42, was hired to titivate Miss Caplin's 'Pounds 700,000
London penthouse'. Now he's being divorced by his wife of nine months, Rachel,
34, who says: 'That cow has ruined everything. She controls everything Rod does'
There is no evidence to suggest that Miss Caplin has canoodled with Mr Wood, but
the News Of The World has found a 'friend' of the builder who says: 'He's (Rod)
been telling everyone he wants to s**g Carole.' Miss Caplin doesn't give
interviews, but she writes an advice column about lifestyle problems.

How To Get The Best Out Of Your Builder might be a suitable future topic.

Political kick-start DESCRIBING his struggles to get us to accept the EU
constitution, Tony Blair told Sir David Frost yesterday: 'It's not that I want
another issue for people to kick me around on.' When he was defeated for the
California governorship in 1962, Richard Nixon gave what he said was his final
press conference, telling reporters:'You won't have Nixon to kick around any
more.' Mr Blair says he's fighting 'a battle between myth and reality'. As he
sees it, the myth is that he's signed away our freedom while the reality is that
we'll be part of 'a Europe of nation states'.

If he loses the battle, might he live to become president of Europe?

Six years after being humiliated in his native California, Nixon became
president of the U.S. in 1968.

Bonne idee DAVE THE late writer Auberon Waugh used to jest that he saw nothing
wrong in us being subsumed into a European superstate.

Indeed, he'd prefer to be ruled by 'Belgian ticket inspectors' than the
Tory/Labour dimwits who aspired to that role. This cynical view is becoming
tempting.

Losing the freedom to govern ourselves would only be an awful prospect if we
hadn't already debauched this precious liberty. Nothing the state is responsible
for works, and seven million watch the new Big Brother series.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              59 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 21, 2004

HE TRIES TO SELL NEW RULE BOOK, BUT BULLISH BRITS AREN'T BUYING IT; TONY, EUR
HAVING A LAUGH

BYLINE: by STEPHEN RIGLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 398 words


EMBATTLED Tony Blair last night launched his campaign to sell the hated new EU
constitution to the nation.

But shock new polls show that bulldog Brits just won't buy it.

The PM insisted he had won "every single thing we wanted to secure" and even
promised that MPs would be able to vote on the deal BEFORE the General Election.
But he shied away from Tory and UKIP calls for an immediate public referendum as
polls showed only 26% of voters would give a thumbs-up to the controversial
treaty he signed in Brussels.

Insiders believe he'd be trounced if the referendum was held now.

And his opponents are raring to exploit Mr Blair's vulnerability.

A spokesman for Tory leader Michael Howard said: "His message to the Prime
Minister will be, 'Bring on the referendum'. We think public opinion is on our
side with this one."

Talk show host-turned-UKIP Euro MP Robert Kilroy Silk fired another broadside.

He branded Mr Blair as being "like Neville Chamberlain", the 1938 PM who met
Hitler and tried to appease him.

Mr Kilroy Silk, once a Labour MP, said: "Chamberlain came back waving a piece of
paper saying, 'It's OK, we are not going to have war, they are not going to
invade us'.

"There's Tony, he's waving a piece of paper saying, 'It's OK, I've only given a
little bit of our sovereignty away' when, in fact, this is the beginning of the
end of Britain as a nation state governing itself."

Uphill Mr Blair will have an uphill struggle to persuade Britons that the Euro
agreement leaves us still in control of our own tax, immigration, defence and
foreign policies - and that this means it's a good bargain.

He said: "This treaty gives us the chance to play a vital part in
decision-making at the heart of the EU while it protects completely our right to
do the things people want us to do."

He added: "This is going to be a fascinating political battle because it will be
a battle between reality and myth.

"If you have a debate about the reality then people will say, 'What's wrong with
that? Why aren't we being part of that'?"

Lib-Dem leader Charles Kennedy said he wanted discussions with Mr Blair over the
scope and direction of the proEuropean campaign.

He added: "It is clear that this cannot be left to the Government alone and
should not be directed from Downing Street.

It must be broadly based to command confidence."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              60 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 21, 2004, Monday

I'll defeat Europe myth, says Blair

BYLINE: By Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 508 words

TONY Blair predicted yesterday that he would win a battle "between myth and
reality" over Europe as he gave himself two years to persuade the British people
to accept the new EU constitution.

He defied Conservative demands to call the promised referendum as soon as
possible, making clear he would not do so until after the next general election.

As a hard-core of Labour MPs prepared to launch their own campaigns against the
constitutional treaty today and fresh opinion polls showed a public majority
opposed to it, Mr Blair accepted that he faced a "tough battle" to win over its
critics.

But, if given time, he would succeed. "This is going to be a fascinating
political battle because it will be a battle between reality and myth.

"If you actually have a debate about the reality then people will say 'well
what's wrong with that? Why aren't we being part of that'?"

The constitution, agreed on Friday after an acrimonious summit in Brussels, does
not have to be ratified until the end of 2006, meaning that Mr Blair can hold
off the referendum until well after the election, expected in early summer next
year.

He said on BBC1's Breakfast with Frost that there was "absolutely no need" to
call a national vote in a hurry. The only reason his opponents were trying to
force the pace was to limit the time pro-Europeans would have to expose the
"myths" being peddled about the treaty.

The Tories and some Labour MPs replied saying the British people deserved the
chance to have their say as soon as possible.

Last night Frank Field, the Euro-sceptic former Labour minister, said it was
"nonsense" to say that a referendum could not be held until after the election
on the grounds that there was insufficient time to complete the formalities in
Parliament. "It could all be done in a few months," he said. Mr Field feared
that the whole issue could do serious damage to Labour at the election and said
that Mr Blair had become a liability to his own party.

"The Prime Minister has this naive view that the more he explains the
constitution the more people will come round. But the reverse is true. The awful
thing is that he has become a handicap."

The battle with the Tories will switch to the Commons today when Mr Blair
reports on the summit.

Michael Ancram, the shadow foreign secretary, accused Mr Blair yesterday of
ignoring the British people, who were against the constitution by a clear
majority. Some Labour and Tory MPs believe Mr Blair was delaying the referendum
in the hope that one of eight other EU countries expected to hold referendums
will vote the constitution down.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television chat show host who won a seat in the
European elections for the UK Independence Party, likened Mr Blair to Neville
Chamberlain, Britain's wartime Prime Minister, and his appeasement of Hitler.

"There's Tony waving a piece of paper saying 'It's OK, I've only given a little
bit away of our sovereignty' when in fact this is the beginning of the end of
Britain as a nation state governing itself."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              61 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 21, 2004

TORIES: LET THE VOTERS HAVE THEIR REFERENDUM NOW UKIP: HE'S ACTING LIKE
CHAMBERLAIN. .IT'S APPEASEMENT POLLS: A HUGE MAJORITY HATE THE EU CONSTITUTION;
NO, NO, NO, MR BLAIR

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6 7

LENGTH: 840 words


TONY Blair faced a growing clamour for an immediate referendum on the new
European Constitution last night as polls showed huge public opposition to the
deal.

The Prime Minister appeared yesterday to acknowledge that he would lose any
popular vote held soon on the new deal - and hinted that it would not happen
until 2006.

The backlash against the new EU blueprint gathered pace yesterday, with the
Tories branding it "a gateway to a country called Europe". And UK Independence
Party Euro MP Robert Kilroy-Silk likened Mr Blair to Neville Chamberlain -
Britain's Prime Minister at the start of the Second World War - and his
appeasement of Hitler.

"Chamberlain came back waving a piece of paper saying 'It's OK, we are not going
to have war, they are not going to invade us', " he said. "There's Tony. He's
waving a piece of paper saying 'It's OK, I've only given a little bit away of
our sovereignty' - when in fact this is the beginning of the end of Britain as a
nation state governing itself."

He accused Mr Blair of being "in panic mode" and challenged him to take part in
a televised debate on the issue.

Mr Blair is facing one of the toughest tasks of his premiership in attempting to
win the referendum. But he insisted that voters would be won round, once they
were told he had secured all his "red lines" on keeping control over tax,
immigration, defence and foreign policy.

And he signalled that MPs could vote on the constitution before the next General
Election.

But Tory deputy leader Michael Ancram called on the Government to hold the
referendum straight away rather than waiting until after the election. Mr Blair
had "simply showed he hadn't listened to the British people" by going to
Brussels to negotiate the treaty three days after the European election results.

"Over 50 per cent of those who voted did so for parties that were against this
constitution and yet he rode roughshod over their interests, and the message
they'd sent him, by signing up to this constitution, " Mr Ancram said.

"It's going to be a constitution which has supremacy over our constitution, over
our laws, and this is something which we believe is highly damaging to the
interests of this country."

The constitution had also been a "missed opportunity" after two years of
re-negotiation and would create a more centralised Europe.

"We haven't brought Europe closer to its people which was the original intention
of this, " he added.

But the Prime Minister said there was "no need" to offer the public an early
vote because the constitution did not have to be ratified until the end of 2006.

Mr Blair told BBC TV's Breakfast With Frost that he had protected Britain's
right to set its own policies independently from Brussels "in all the areas that
go to make up Britain as a nation state". He said Westminster would still
determine policy on taxes, immigration, defence and foreign affairs under the
new constitution for Brussels.

Mr Blair admitted that opinion polls showed strong opposition to the
constitution, but said that was because the public had not been told the truth
about it.

"This is going to be a fascinating political battle because it will be a battle
between reality and myth, " he said.

"If you actually have a debate about the reality then people will say 'Well,
what's wrong with that? Why aren't we being part of that?'" In an apparent
admission that he is playing for time, the Prime Minister said Euro-sceptics
wanted the referendum soon because "they fear the longer the debate goes on, the
more these myths will be exposed".

Surrendering national vetoes for qualified majority voting in many areas was
"perfectly sensible", Mr Blair said, as without it, reform was impossible. He
said he had not signed up to the constitution because he wanted yet another
issue for people to "kick him around" on.

"The reason I have done this, " he said, "is that I believe it to be in the
interest of Britain and I think the job of Prime Minister - even when it may be
unpopular and you get attacked for doing things - is to do what you think is
right."

The premier said the EU was now changing and the new members shared Britain's
view on its future direction. They saw the EU as a union of nation states and
not a federal superstate.

The new constitution gave far more power to the European Council where nation
states negotiate and gave national parliaments a say in Commission laws, he
said.

The 300-page document still needs to be approved by all 25 national parliaments
and by referenda in at least six member states, including Britain.

An ICM opinion poll found that 57 per cent of people will vote against the EU
constitution, with only 28 per cent planning to vote in favour. Most voters were
also found to be highly suspicious of Mr Blair's claims that Britain has
retained complete control of taxes, defence, criminal justice and asylum.

A YouGov poll found 49 per cent of voters against the new constitution and just
23 per cent in favour.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              62 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 21, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; LET'S HAVE EU SHOWDOWN NOW

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 137 words


IF THE Prime Minister imagined last April that his U-turn in agreeing to a
referendum on the EU constitution would soothe public opinion, he was very much
mistaken.

Earlier this month, the drubbing which the Government received in the European
elections, together with the resounding endorsement of Ukip, have proved that we
are a profoundly eurosceptic nation with - according to the latest poll - two to
one likely to vote "No" in a referendum.

Mr Blair fondly imagines he can win us round by using delaying tactics. He
won't.

But postponing the vote for up to two years, probably until after the next
general election, is simply unacceptable.

Michael Howard is right. We must hold the referendum now and have done with it.
It's apparent that the British people have already made their feelings plain.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              63 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 21, 2004

Blair facing hard slog to expose EU 'myths'

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words


Tony Blair yesterday promised a slow burn campaign over the next 18 months to
expose what he called the Eurosceptic myths surrounding the reality of the new
European constitution agreed by the 25 EU members at the weekend.

But Mr Blair's aides admitted privately they had "a very big educating job to
do" to turn round public opinion ahead of a referendum provisionally set by No
10 for 2006.

Speaking yesterday after the dust had settled on his successful battle to
preserve his so-called red lines in the marathon negotiations in Brussels, Mr
Blair said: "This is going to be a fascinating political battle because it will
be a battle between reality and myth."

The foreign secretary, Jack Straw, predicted it would be a long time before the
referendum occurred.

But the government will come under pressure today from the Conservative leader,
Michael Howard, to hold a referendum immediately now that the constitution is
agreed.

The shadow foreign secretary, Michael Ancram, insisted the treaty was "a gateway
to a country called Europe".

But the prime minister will accuse Mr Howard of trying to rush a detailed public
debate simply in order to hoodwink an ignorant or misled public.

Downing Street officials pointed to polling evidence showing voters would back
the constitution if they did not think it would undermine British independence
over defence, tax setting and asylum.

A YouGov poll of nearly 1,300 people showed voters would on present terms reject
the constitution by 49% to 23%.

But the same poll, seized on by Mr Blair yesterday, revealed widespread
misunderstanding about the constitution. It showed that 58% believe Britain will
lose control of its asylum policy, 66% believe or do not know if Britain will
lose its seat on the UN security council, 46% believe EU law will overrule
British law for the first time, 51% believe the EU will have the ability to
control tax rates in Britain, 39% believe there will only be an EU passport, 61%
believe Britain will have to change its laws on trade unions and strikes to
comply with EU rules, and 46% believe Britain will need EU approval before
fighting a war.

Mr Blair claimed this ignorance was prompting the Eurosceptics to demand an
immediate plebiscite.

Speaking on BBC1's Breakfast with Frost programme, he said: "There's absolutely
no need to have it straight away and of course I know exactly why the UK
Independence party and the Conservative party want the referendum quickly,
because they fear that the longer the debate goes on, the more these myths will
be exposed, and we don't have to ratify this until the end of 2006."

Mr Blair is likely to introduce the bill ratifying the treaty to parliament in
November, probably in time to complete its parliamentary stages by the time of a
late spring election in 2005. He recognises he badly needs support from the
pro-Europe media, as well as proof that the treaty, as he claims, favours the
council of ministers at the expense of the integrationist European commission.

Mr Blair said: "At this moment in time, when Europe is actually changing, when
there's growing support for Britain's position in Europe, to get out of the
European Union or marginalise ourselves in decision-making would just be an
extraordinary act of foolishness."

But Mr Blair is still facing dissent from his own ranks, including a new group
to be launched today led by Kate Hoey and Ian Davidson opposed to the treaty.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, of Ukip, likened Mr Blair to Neville Chamberlain, Britain's
prime minister who failed to stand up to fascism at the start of the second
world war.

"It's appeasement," the chat show host said. "He's waving a piece of paper
saying, 'It's OK, I've only given a little bit away of our sovereignty', when in
fact this is the beginning of the end of Britain as a nation state governing
itself."

Mr Ancram, insisting his party would not form a pact with Ukip, said: "It's
going to be a constitution which has supremacy over our constitution, over our
laws."

EU constitution, page 11

Leader comment, page 17


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 21, 2004

Analysis: Blair faces two year fight to win over sceptics

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1059 words


Tony Blair has fired the starting pistol on the great campaign for Europe so
many times that he must be running low on ammunition. Yesterday's attempt to
begin to persuade the British public about the merits of the EU constitution may
prove to be another false start, because Mr Blair does not need (and does not
want) to hold his promised leadership-defining referendum on the new EU treaty
for some time.

The text, agreed late on Friday night, states that Britain and the other 24 EU
member states do not have to ratify the treaty in their domestic parliaments
until the end of 2006.

Judging by the weekend rash of poll results, Mr Blair will need every day
between now and then to turn the sceptic tide. His chief solace is that the
public do not understand the treaty and may not have totally closed minds.

An NOP poll last weekend, for instance, showed that almost half of all voters
have not made up their minds, or are open to persuasion on how to vote in a
referendum on the EU constitutional treaty. Such is the state of ignorance that
less than a third (32%) of voters are aware the referendum will be on the
constitutional treaty (compared with 29% who think the vote will be on the
euro). The most realistic date for a referendum will be spring or summer 2006.
The battle will be conducted on two levels.

At the higher intellectual plane, experts on EU law will trade blows on the
precise meaning and interpretations of the 330-page constitution, including
appendices, and the extent to which the European court of justice has been given
new powers to intrude into British law.

Mr Blair hopes to use a leisurely, scholarly debate on the treaty during the
bill's ratification passage in the Commons and Lords, starting in the autumn, as
a platform to distinguish reality from myth. But watch out here for bright
modern figures such as Dominic Cummings, the former Conservative strategist now
working for the sceptic New Frontiers Foundation, or Martin Howe QC, a veteran
Europe legal expert.

They are already squaring up to make the muddying claim that the text is so
ambivalent that the danger, latent in the constitution, will only be truly
revealed when the European court of justice starts making centralising
interpretations of the new law.

On the other more emotive plane, there will be competing appeals to the
electorate's gut instincts, especially their fears about Europe. The no camp
will trade on fear of loss of statehood, fear of asylum and outright xenophobia.
The still nascent yes campaign will trade on fear of isolation, loss of
influence and ultimate ejection from the EU, leading to economic decline.

So far it looks as though the no campaign is better prepared and better funded,
since it has big backers left over from Business for Sterling, including Michael
Spencer, head of ICAP, the world's largest money broker, Sir Brian Williamson,
the former chairman of Liffe and director of Euronext, and Clive Jacobs, the
chairman of Holiday Autos. This trio were sending a message to Mr Blair today,
the first shot in a campaign to prove that British business can live without the
constitution.

Equally importantly, the No to Europe group on the left is becoming more vocal
and organised. A new thinktank, the Centre for a Social Europe, is to be
launched in the next four to six weeks. It is being run by Matthew McGregor, a
campaign manager at the no campaign, and Graham Copp, who coordinated
parliamentary activities for Vote 2004, the campaign for a referendum on the
constitution.

Key figures include the Labour MPs Ian Davidson, John Cryer and Roger Godsiff,
the green MEP Caroline Lucas, and the environmentalist Zac Goldsmith. Their
draft statement argues: "The EU is trying to do too much, and it is doing much
of this badly. It is wasteful and inefficient. A neo-liberal economic and
competition policy championed by an elitist commission is strangling growth and
locking in mass unemployment across the continent.

By contrast, the yes campaign is still in disarray after the near collapse of
Britain in Europe, caused by disillusion ment at Mr Blair's delay over the euro
referendum. Its director, Simon Buckby, has left, fed up with the prime
minister's dithering. The yes campaign badly needs its own Kilroy-Silk figure,
and recognises that in current political debate one Wayne Rooney is worth 57
varieties of silver-haired former British ambassadors to Brussels.

Mr Blair can hope to pencil in a succession of specific events between now and
autumn 2006 to turn the tide. He hopes to have won a general election, and the
EU economy to be reviving. Equally importantly, he believes he can, with the
help of the central European bloc and the next round of presidencies, swing
Europe from constitutional navel gazing to the more practical concerns of growth
and security.

Mr Blair may also have been helped by the rise of the UK Independence party and
the advocates of withdrawal. It will be easier to make this an in or out
referendum.

But pro-Europeans have not yet found a positive language about this treaty.
Cabinet ministers touring the TV studios yesterday could not escape the
defensive language of safeguarding and protecting Britain's rights from an
invasive EU.

Pressed to make a positive case, the foreign secretary, Jack Straw, only said
the new text makes "Europe more efficient and more effective" - something,
incidentally, the Nice treaty was intended to do - before returning to the
negative theme by pointing to the new treaty for the first time containing a
power for national parliaments to ask the commission to rethink plans for a
specific fresh directive.

Above all, the yes camp faces a phalanx of media scepticism. The Daily Telegraph
described the treaty as the capstone of federal state, while the Times, often
supportive of the government, was dismissive: "This document offers not a
roadmap to the future but gives an opportunity for discredited ideologies and
government intervention to make a grand return."

Mr Buckby was speaking the blunt truth when he admitted yesterday: "The
pro-Europe cause is in a very bad situation. It needs a shot in the arm that has
to come from the PM and him alone. He has to confront the newspapers, he cannot
sleepwalk to victory. He has got to stand up and fight."

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 21, 2004, Monday

A BATTLE BETWEEN REALITY AND MYTH';
 AS TONY BLAIR BEGINS SELLING THE NEW EU CONSTITUTION TO THE BRITISH

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE AND MARIE WOOLF Tony Blair makes his case on Breakfast
with Frost' yesterday Reuters

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE

LENGTH: 1045 words


"IF TONY Blair puts his pen to paper today he'll be signing away a thousand
years of British sovereignty. Our independence to run our own lives, make our
own laws, be masters of our destinies, will all be lost."

The Sun editorial, Friday 18 June 2004

FACT: The constitution defines and clarifies who does what. Most EU powers laid
down already exist. There is an extension of majority voting but a small one by
comparison with earlier treaties negotiated by previous governments. In all
sensitive new areas such as justice and home affairs or social security, Britain
cannot be outvoted. There is only one new area where the EU gets the power to
act (jointly with governments): energy. Even here the EU already had some role
through its environment policy. To describe this as the loss of a thousand years
of British sovereignty is absurd.

The constitution "creates a European public prosecutor, a prosecuting magistracy
(to be known as Eurojust) and a federal police force (Europol)".

Sunday Telegraph, 20 June 2004

FACT: All nations will have to agree unanimously to set up a European Public
Prosecutor who would help combat fraud against the EU (unless all nations agreed
to widen its scope); Eurojust already exits to co-ordinate between prosecutors,
as does Europol, which provides an umbrella to exchange information among
European law enforcement agencies. To call it a federal police force is
nonsense.

"The new constitution may encourage several countries that are already in the
eurozone to harmonise their taxes. That would probably deter Britain from
joining the euro, even if Blair wanted to do so."

Sunday Times, 20 June 2004

FACT: Britain has insisted on the right to veto any tax measure it dislikes. But
it has had to accept that groups of countries that want to get together, for
example to harmonise corporate tax bases, should not be stopped. Hence this
scenario is possible.

The UK will lose its seat on the UN Security Council.

The Sun, 22 April 2004

FACT: The UK will retain its veto - wielding a permanent seat at the UN. The EU
Foreign Minister would only address the Security Council when invited to do so
by its members (including the UK). He or she would, in any case, be bound by
decisions taken in the EU unanimously.

A secret clause in the constitution would give Brussels control over our oil.

The Sun, 12 November 2003

FACT: The Treaty contains no reference to EU control over North Sea oil. There
is a new chapter on energy but in a form which both the UK Government and the
oil companies accept as harmless. It says that natural resources are for member
states to exploit.

The constitution is "a gateway to a country called Europe ... It's going to be a
constitution which has supremacy over our constitution, over our laws, and this
is something which we believe is highly damaging to the interests of this
country."

Michael Ancram, shadow Foreign Secretary, 20 June 2004

FACT: The EU is not a country, it is a collection of 25 nation states which pool
some of their sovereignty. The constitution says that countries confer
competences upon the EU - not the other way round. It spells out the supremacy
of EU law but this restates the current position: every lawyer knows that the
European Court of Justice in Luxembourg is the highest court. Nor is this
damaging to the UK which has a good record of abiding by the law. It is only
because of the supremacy of EU law that, for example, the French had to lift
their ban on British beef when it was shown that they were in breach of it.

The EU and the European Court will choose who will be granted asylum in the UK,
and even who gets a passport. We will lose control of our borders and have no
say in who enters the country.

The Sun, 12 December 2003

FACT: EU member states will decide the

principles behind asylum policy by majority vote. But this is backed by the UK
which wants all countries to have similar rules to prevent "asylum shopping".
Britain retains an opt-out on EU border policy and keeps the right to police our
own frontiers and there will be no change.

"Beneath all the posturing, two things are certain.

First, Brussels will gain extensive powers over foreign, defence, and employment
laws. How different it looks now to Mr Blair's insistence only months ago that
it was a mere tidying up exercise. Second, the agreement emerging from this
weekend's imbroglio was trumpeted by Mr Blair as a triumph for the EU and its
citizens. In time, he will insist none of his red lines' have been crossed. And
he will mount an unprecedented propaganda exercise to convince us of this in a
referendum campaign.

Daily Mail leader, Saturday 19 June 2004

FACT: There are institutional changes that make the constitution more than a
tidying up exercise. But there are no new EU powers on defence, which remains
the preserve of nation states and an area in which Britain is co-operating
because it wants to. The final text makes clear there will only be majority
voting in foreign affairs in the implementation of policies already agreed -
unanimously - by all 25 nation states. It also includes a reference which,
according to the Government, ensures that the Charter of Fundamental Rights does
not create any new employment rights. Significantly, the CBI director general
Digby Jones gave the document a cautious welcome yesterday.

"The blueprint will create a United States of Europe headed by a new President
who will oust Her Majesty."

The Sun 10 September 2003

FACT: The European Union remains; there is no United States of Europe. The Queen
will continue as our head of state. The EU's treaty will not affect our
constitutional arrangements. Several other EU nations have monarchs including
the Netherlands, Sweden and Belgium, and in no other country has there been the
same misrepresentation of the constitution.

"If Mr Blair signs the constitution regardless of public opinion we will have to
surrender our place at the international top table - in Nato, in the United
Nations and at the G8 summits to name but a few.

Nigel Farage, UKIP MEP, 4 June 2004

FACT: The UK will continue to enjoy exactly the same status in Nato, the United
Nations and at the G8. Fantasy.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              66 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 21, 2004, Monday

EUROPE DEBATE: BLAIR FIRES FIRST SHOT IN REFERENDUM FIGHT BATTLE

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND MARIE WOOLF Robert Kilroy-Silk likened Tony Blair's
acceptance of the constitution to Chamberlain's appeasement Jeff Overs

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 638 words


TONY BLAIR came out fighting for the European Union constitution yesterday but
ducked a challenge by Eurosceptics to put it to an immediate referendum. The
vote is expected to be delayed until 2006.

The Prime Minister put his faith in a long campaign to expose what he called
"the myths" about the new EU blueprint, insisting that Britain would retain
control of its tax, foreign, defence, asylum and industrial relations policies.
But he admitted: "It is going to be a tough battle."

Mr Blair said Parliament would debate the EU treaty before the general election,
expected in May next year, but a referendum would not be held until afterwards.
Ministers said it would be "difficult" to hold a plebiscite in the second half
of next year because Britain will hold the EU's rotating presidency and early
2006 has been pencilled inas the likely date.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the UK Independence Party MEP, likened Mr Blair to Neville
Chamberlain and his appeasement of Hitler. He told the BBC: "He's waving a piece
of paper saying, it's OK, I've only given a little bit away of our sovereignty."

Michael Howard, the Tory leader, will accuse the Prime Minister of "running
scared" when he reports to the Commons today on the EU summit in Brussels which
approved the constitution. The Tories and UKIP said there was no reason why the
referendum could not be held this year.

Mr Blair told the BBC's Breakfast with Frost programme that the Tories and UKIP
feared that the longer the debate went on, the truth about the constitution
would emerge. "It will be a battle between reality and myth," he said.

He added: "We have won every single thing we wanted to secure. This treaty gives
us the chance to play a vital part in decision-making at the heart of the EU
whilst it protects completely our right to set our taxes, run our foreign policy
and defence and do the things that people want us to do." He confirmed that he
had made a concession that would allow other EU states to forge ahead with
integration, including a common tax policy, without Britain.

He took comfort from apparently hostile opinion polls published yesterday,
arguing that people would support the constitution when they knew that Britain
would keep control of its key policies.

An ICM poll, for the cross-party Vote No campaign, showed 57 per cent would
reject the constitution if a referendum was held tomorrow. A YouGov poll showed
voters would vote "no" by 49 per cent to 23 per cent. But it also revealed
widespread ignorance about the constitution and suggested that if myths about
its implications were exploded a majority would back it.

Yesterday a string of senior ministers defended the constitution. Jack Straw,
the Foreign Secretary, said it would "end any speculation, any possibility of
the EU becoming a federal superstate". He told BBC Radio 4 that a referendum
could be won, adding it would be "quite a long time" before it was held.

Andrew Smith, the Work and Pensions Secretary, said on BBC1's Politics Show that
he was "absolutely confident" that people would endorse it.

But Keith Vaz, the former Europe minister, warned that the referendum would be
lost unless the Government did more to promote the constitution.

Today Labour Eurosceptics will relaunch a group called Labour Against a
Superstate, which could win the support of 40 Labour backbenchers who oppose the
constitution. Frank Field, the former social security minister, warned that the
issue could cost Mr Blair his premiership and said it would be better to have
the referendum before the election. He said: "My view is that people are so
upset by Mr Blair's behaviour they actually want to get even with him in a very
significant way. Better to get even with him over the European constitution than
to get even in a general election."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              67 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 21, 2004, Monday

LEADING ARTICLE: THERE CAN BE NO DELAY IN CONFRONTING THE INGRAINED MYTHS ABOUT
EUROPE

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 676 words


THE COUNTDOWN to a referendum on the EU constitution has begun. The deal
concluded in Brussels on Friday evening means that Tony Blair now knows the
package he must sell to the British public and that the campaign for a "yes"
vote can begin in earnest. The time for defending our "red lines" against
advancing continental hordes is over. The Prime Minister and the Government now
have a duty to make the case, unambiguously, for Britain to engage fully in the
European project.

Of course this will not be easy and no realistic pro-European would start from
here given the choice. The gains by the UK Independence Party in the recent
European election have demonstrated the strength of anti-European feeling in
this country, and placed the spotlight on that section of society that demands
total withdrawal from the European Union. Convincing these people to vote in
favour of an EU constitution will be impossible. But more significantly, it is
now clear that many Britons are unconvinced about the utility of anything
emanating from Brussels. The days when the Government could have hoped people
would vote "yes" to a constitution due to the lack of an alternative are long
gone.

And then there is the wider issue of trust. The Prime Minister will attempt to
exercise his celebrated powers of persuasion on a population jaded by the
failure to uncover weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. Even those who might
have been inclined to vote in favour of the constitution may well conclude that
having trusted the Prime Minster once, they will not be fooled a second time.

But although things look bad, it would be wrong to despair. There will be no
referendum until after the general election, which means a year at the very
least. This gives the Government some time, and it is vital that it uses it.
Labour's biggest mistake in this area since 1997 has been its refusal to make
the case for the European Union. Its silence, punctuated by occasional
"pro-British" posturing, has created the ground on which the likes of UKIP have
been able to thrive. Mr Blair cannot now afford to let Europe slip off the
agenda, no matter how loudly his private pollsters tell him to concentrate on
domestic issues.

If he is to win the referendum, he must shoot down the myths peddled by the
Europhobic press, one by one, until they cease to resonate. And the Government
needs to inform people about what the European Union has done to improve their
lives. It should not be left to organs like this newspaper to provide people
with the facts about Europe.

A poll conducted this weekend demonstrated the depths of public ignorance about
Europe. Many wrongly believe the constitution gives the EU the power to set
British taxes, or believe we will all be issued with European, rather than
British, passports. Yet this poll also indicated people would be prepared to
reconsider their opposition if they knew the truth. Mr Blair is right to draw
some comfort from this, as he did yesterday, but such optimism will all be in
vain if the Government reverts to its old habits of allowing lies about Europe
to go unchallenged.

Achieving a "yes" vote will ultimately require more than exploding falsehoods,
although this is an excellent place to start. The Government must transform the
whole tone of political discourse on Europe. The rhetoric of "us and them" will
not do any longer. Any short-term political gains the Government gets from
indulging this sort of siege mentality will be outweighed by the losses when it
comes to referendum day. Attempting to sound tougher on Europe than UKIP is an
exercise in futility and is wrong in principle. The Government needs only to
look at the example of the Tories if it is in any doubt about that.

Mr Blair is right when he says the forthcoming battle over the EU constitution
will be "reality against myth". But he must be under no illusions about how
ingrained and powerful certain myths can be; nor about the level of commitment
and effort it is going to require to erase them. The clock is ticking.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              68 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 21, 2004, Monday

EU LIARS;
 BLAIR TAKES ON EURO-SCEPTICS

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 415 words

HIGHLIGHT: MISSION: Mr Blair on Frost show yesterday


TONY Blair will today begin his campaign to shatter the myths and lies being
spread by Euro-sceptics.

Buoyed up by defeating the superstate aims of France and Germany last week, he
said: "This is going to be a fascinating political battle because it will be a
battle between reality and myth.

"If you actually have a debate about the reality, then people will say, 'Well
what's wrong with that? Why aren't we being part of that?'."

The Prime Minister and Tory leader Michael Howard will clash in the Commons
today for the first time since Mr Blair signed Britain up to a historic new
European constitution on Friday.

Speaking on the BBC's Breakfast with Frost yesterday, he dismissed Tory and UK
Independence Party calls for a referendum now. He said: "There is no need to
rush it. The longer the debate goes on, the more myths will be exposed. We don't
have to ratify this until the end of 2006."

Mr Howard faces the embarrassment of senior Tories siding with Mr Blair. Former
Tory deputy PM Lord Heseltine said: "He has won a significant victory by
challenging the French and German alliance."

But Mr Blair's aides admit he faces a struggle to turn round public opinion on
Europe. And he could face a backbench revolt of about 50 Labour MPs who have
formed a group against the constitution.

Yesterday, Ukip's Robert Kilroy-Silk compared Mr Blair to Neville Chamberlain,
Britain's Prime Minister at the start of the Second World War. He said:
"Chamberlain came back waving a piece of paper saying, 'It's OK, we are not
going to have war'.

"There's Tony. He's waving a piece of paper saying, 'It's OK, I've only given a
little bit away of our sovereignty'. In fact this is the beginning of the end of
Britain governing itself." But Labour MP Andrew MacKinlay said: "It was the
absence of strong institutions such as the EU that led to two world wars."

WE EXPOSE FIVE MYTHS

THESE are just some of the wild myths peddled by the Euro-sceptics:

The Queen would no longer reign as

Britain would no longer be allowed to have a monarchy.

THE treasury would lose control of the ability to set all of our taxes which
would be taken over by Brussels.

The UK would lose its powerful, permanent seat on the United Nations Security
Council.

Motorists in Britain would be forced to drive on the right to conform with other
EU countries.

UK armed forces would no longer be under British command, but would be ordered
around by Brussels officials.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              69 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 21, 2004, Monday

I'LL DESTROY EURO MYTHS;
 BLAIR IN PLEDGE ON CONSTITUTION

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 280 words

HIGHLIGHT: MISSION: Mr Blair on Frost show yesterday


TONY Blair will today begin his campaign to shatter the myths and lies being
spread by Euro-sceptics.

Buoyed up by defeating the superstate aims of France and Germany last week, he
said: "This is going to be a fascinating political battle because it will be a
battle between reality and myth.

"If you actually have a debate about the reality, then people will say, 'Well,
why aren't we being part of that?'."

The Prime Minister and Tory leader Michael Howard will clash in the Commons
today for the first time since Mr Blair signed Britain up to a historic new
European constitution on Friday.

Speaking on the BBC's Breakfast with Frost yesterday, he dismissed Tory and UK
Independence Party calls for a referendum now. He said: "There is no need to
rush it. The longer the debate goes on, the more myths will be exposed."

Mr Howard faces the embarrassment of senior Tories siding with Mr Blair. Former
Tory deputy PM Lord Heseltine said: "He has won a significant victory by
challenging the French and German alliance."

But Mr Blair's aides admit he faces a struggle to turn round public opinion and
he could face a backbench revolt of about 50 Labour MPs. Yesterday, Ukip's
Robert Kilroy-Silk compared Mr Blair to Neville Chamberlain, Britain's Prime
Minister at the start of the Second World War.

He said: "Chamberlain came back waving a piece of paper saying, 'It's OK, we are
not going to have war'. There's Tony. He's waving a piece of paper saying, 'It's
OK, I've only given a little bit away of our sovereignty'. In fact this is the
beginning of the end of Britain governing itself."

Voice of The Mirror: Page 8

o.blackman@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              70 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 21, 2004, Monday

EU LIARS;
 BLAIR TAKES ON EURO-SCEPTICS

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 315 words

HIGHLIGHT: MISSION: Mr Blair on Frost show yesterday


TONY Blair will today begin his campaign to shatter the myths and lies being
spread by Euro-sceptics.

Buoyed up by defeating the superstate aims of France and Germany last week, he
said: "This is going to be a fascinating political battle because it will be a
battle between reality and myth.

"If you actually have a debate about the reality, then people will say, 'Well
what's wrong with that? Why aren't we being part of that?'."

The Prime Minister and Tory leader Michael Howard will clash in the Commons
today for the first time since Mr Blair signed Britain up to a historic new
European constitution on Friday.

Speaking on the BBC's Breakfast with Frost yesterday, he dismissed Tory and UK
Independence Party calls for a referendum now.

He said: "There is no need to rush it. The longer the debate goes on, the more
myths will be exposed. We don't have to ratify this until the end of 2006."

Mr Howard faces the embarrassment of senior Tories siding with Mr Blair. Former
Tory deputy PM Lord Heseltine said: "He has won a significant victory by
challenging the French and German alliance."

But Mr Blair's aides admit he faces a struggle to turn round public opinion on
Europe.

And he could face a backbench revolt of about 50 Labour MPs who have formed a
group against the constitution.

Yesterday, Ukip's Robert Kilroy-Silk compared Mr Blair to Neville Chamberlain,
Britain's Prime Minister at the start of World War II.

He said: "Chamberlain came back waving a piece of paper saying, 'It's OK, we are
not going to have war'. There's Tony. He's waving a piece of paper saying, 'It's
OK, I've only given a little bit away of our sovereignty'.

"In fact this is the beginning of the end of Britain governing itself."

But Labour MP Andrew MacKinlay said: "It was the absence of strong institutions
such as the EU that led to two world wars."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              71 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 21, 2004, Monday

VOICE OF THE SCOTTISH DAILY MIRROR: BLAIR HAS TO TAKE ON THE EURO HATERS

SECTION: Scots Edition; LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 266 words


TONY Blair has two big hurdles to surmount if he is to persuade voters to
support the European constitution.

The first is the huge amount of public misunderstanding about what the EU does
and how it operates.

The other is the downright lies and scare tactics of his opponents.

Mr Blair would have a hard enough task to explain the truth about the EU without
having to deal with their rubbish. Their torrent of ludicrous claims makes it
even tougher.

This government has been half-hearted about telling people the benefits of
Europe and the dangers of not being at its heart.

But whenever the Prime Minister has stuck his neck out, and particularly when he
achieves something important, as he has done with the constitution, he is met
with an upsurge in untruths.

The Tories have been hysterical in their denunciation of the deal he struck in
Brussels, but the worst diatribe came from Robert Kilroy-Silk, now a UKIP MEP.

He accused Tony Blair of acting like the Prime Minister who tried to appease
Hitler in the 1930s. Sheer, offensive, ignorant gibberish

The only sound of jackboots in Britain today comes not from our European
partners but from this country's right-wing parties who share policies with the
Nazis.

Thanks to the EU, we have enjoyed a historic 60 years of peace on this continent
and unrivalled prosperity - far greater than in the old days which UKIP and its
followers look back on with such misty eyes.

Tony Blair has a dangerous, unscrupulous foe in his battle to get over the
European message. But he must win for the sake of Britain.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              72 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 21, 2004

BLAIR 'LIKE A SWIVEL-EYED EU EXTREMIST'

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh

LENGTH: 421 words


..says his OWN MP

TONY Blair was last night accused of being "like a swivel-eyed extremist" in the
drive for a European superstate -by one of his own MPs.

The PM looked gaunt and rattled as he was grilled on TV over his sell-out at
last week's EU summit.

He told the BBC's Sir David Frost that Britain's EU treaty referendum will be a
"fascinating political battle between reality and myth".

Mr Blair said: "The fact is we have kept control of taxes, of our policy on
immigration, of defence, of foreign policy."

Critics of the EU are traditionally cast as eccentrics. But Labour MP Frank
Field said: "Watching him defending the indefensible, it was Tony Blair who
looked like a swivel-eyed extremist. He is saying the treaty he opposed contains
nothing of importance. Even if he has from now until eternity, he will never
persuade people to buy this package."

The PM was blasted for making the Constitution a vote loser -and there were
calls for a snap referendum to stop it becoming a key election issue.

He also faces war with euro campaigners from all parties.

Thriving

And up to 100 Labour MPs are privately or publicly opposed to the Constitution.

Ex-welfare reform minister Mr Field, below, said: "For 30 years voters have been
fed a diet of propaganda that Britain is too weak to survive outside the EU.

"But they know Britain has been thriving for 12 years with unemployment half the
EU average.

"They know fraud is rampant, our seas are being raped and farmers are
impoverished by the Common Agriculture Policy. What people object to with Mr
Blair is his arrogance, his failure to listen, always riding roughshod, always
being cocky." MP Ian Davidson -founder of Labour Against A Superstate -added:
"Tony is riding for a fall."

With certain defeat staring him in the face, Mr Blair ruled out a referendum for
at least two years.

A new poll shows 49 per cent would reject the Constitution now -with only 23 per
cent in favour.

Ex-TV host Robert Kilroy-Silk -now a UKIP MEP -said: "This is the beginning of
the end of Britain as a nation state governing itself."

Tory Foreign Affairs spokesman Michael Ancram said the Constitution was "highly
damaging" to the country's interests.

Meanwhile a new study revealed families are Pounds 2,500 a year better off due
to Britain staying OUT of the euro.

Economists Numerica said UK growth averaged 2.8 per cent in the last seven years
- but Europe's average was just 2.1 per cent.

The Sun Says -Page Eight


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              73 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 21, 2004

DEAR SUN

SECTION: LETTER

LENGTH: 38 words


THE UK Independence Party says it does not want anything to do with a European
Parliament. Why on earth are they then sending 12 MEPs to Brussels? Is it to
disrupt proceedings?

GAVIN URQUHART

Coatbridge, Lanarkshire


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              74 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

MEDIA: IS THERE A SPIN-DOCTOR IN THE HOUSE?;
 OPINION: THE DEPARTURE OF ALASTAIR CAMPBELL HAS LEFT LABOUR'S PRESS

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH Alastair Campbell: legacy of self-defeating fame

SECTION: Final Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 693 words


Frank Dobson, the former Health Secretary, tells a joke that political
spin-doctors are like poisoners: there have been famous poisoners and there have
been successful poisoners, but there have been no famous, successful poisoners.

The Labour Party is still paying a price for the self-defeating fame of some of
its former spin-doctors - Alastair Campbell, Peter Mandelson, Charlie Whelan, Jo
Moore, etc - whose exploits have been written up so often that one academic,
writing last week, described New Labour's spin operation as "one of our dominant
narratives of the last decade".

That was in the old days. Now, the Labour Party has descended into a kind of
post-spin paralysis. Bereft of Mr Campbell, Tony Blair is left with an efficient
press office in Downing Street, but no co-ordinated "spin" operation.

Instead, he runs an informal arrangement using a small circle of past and
present Cabinet ministers whom he trusts. When Mr Blair does not like the slant
that is being put on the day's political news, he rings members of the circle to
urge them to contact journalists they know to put across the story according to
the Prime Minister, without making it explicit that it is coming from him.

It is odd being on the receiving end of these prime ministerial messages.
Someone from the circle rings up claiming to have had a spontaneous thought
about the day's political news. Minutes later, someone else from the circle
rings after being struck by exactly the same thought.

Meanwhile, the Labour Party is trapped with a Lucretia Borgia-like reputation
left over from the pre-1997 era, undermining public faith in the party, when in
reality its current spin operation is so inefficient and feeble that it could
not administer the poison to give a bulimic vegetarian the hiccups.

A couple of personal experiences of the recent election provided an insight into
the dire state of Labour's media operation. On the day after polling, the
Conservatives, the Liberal Democrats and UKIP were contacting journalists to put
their spin on the local council elections. So I tried the press office at
Labour's headquarters, hoping to find out if anyone there was holding a press
briefing. The answer was that they did not know. Because of this helpless
inertia, the local government results - bad enough in themselves - looked even
worse when reported by journalists who had been briefed by Labour's opponents
but not by the Labour Party.

A few weeks earlier, as the invites came in from political parties to the
launches of their European election campaigns, I tried the same Labour press
office for any news of theirs. It was Saturday. The office was empty. A recorded
voice directed me to a pager. Ringing that number produced a response from the
duty press officer, but he did not know when Labour was launching its campaign.
He went away to find out, drew a blank, and called me to suggest I try a
different pager. Still no answer. The mystery launch took place the following
Monday, featuring Mr Blair, Gordon Brown and Patricia Hewitt.

I relate these trivial tales not to invoke sympathy for us political hacks, for
whom an ineffective press office is just an irritant. The real losers are those
who want the Labour government to survive the next general election.

The problem is not new. It is a structural problem faced by governing parties, a
repeat of what happened 20 years ago when Margaret Thatcher allowed Conservative
Central Office's press office to rot on the vine, because she liked to have all
presentation handled from Downing Street.

It seems that Mr Blair cannot bear to let control of the media operation pass
outside his little magic circle. The problems this causes are likely to be
magnified a thousand-fold when the Labour Party enters the next general election
- the first for more than a decade that it could actually lose.

If the Labour Party spends that campaign floundering about amateurishly,
incapable of answering elementary questions from the media, it could wake up on
a Friday morning to find that it is sunk.

Andy McSmith is the political editor of The Independent on Sunday'

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              75 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

CABINET RESHUFFLE AS BLAIR PREPARES EU BATTLE

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Final Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 507 words


Tessa Jowell, the Culture Secretary, is tipped to take over as chairman of the
Labour Party as Tony Blair prepares for two big tests - the general election and
the referendum on the new EU constitution, agreed early yesterday morning.

The Prime Minister was accused yesterday of flying in the face of public opinion
by agreeing to the new EU constitution barely a week after the European
elections in which the Conservatives took first place and the UK Independence
Party, which believes in outright withdrawal from the EU, came third.

The Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, denied yesterday that Britain had "given away
anything" during a tense EU summit, marked by a public row between Mr Blair and
the French President Jacques Chirac. "Overall it is a very good deal," Mr Straw
claimed.

But the shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram said that it was "incredible"
that ministers were defending a constitution that the Government initially
opposed.

When Mr Blair faces the Commons tomorrow, he is likely to be challenged to call
a promised referendum without delay, but will buy time by insisting that it must
be scrutinised by Parliament before it is put to the popular vote.

Ms Jowell's move, which is likely to be the main feature of the Cabinet
reshuffle that Mr Blair is preparing before MPs leave for their summer break,
will position her to be the public face of the Labour Party in both the general
election and the referendum.

She would be expected to side with the Prime Minister in the behind-the- scenes
battle over Labour's election manifesto. With Michael Howard signalling that the

Conservatives intend to make health and education the big election issues, Mr
Blair wants Labour to put together a "radical" manifesto promising greater
consumer choice, which Labour traditionalists see as a threat to the principle
of equal access for all.

The current chairman, Ian McCartney, is vulnerable because of the party's poor
showing in this month's local elections, when Labour was beaten into third place

Another reason for wanting a "Blairite" party chairman is that Mr Blair is
facing the simultaneous loss of two of the advisers who have seen him through
previous elections.

Sally Morgan, the senior Downing Street adviser who handles Mr Blair's relations
with the Labour Party, has told him she wants to start a new career in the
private sector. Baroness Morgan has already had a meeting with at least one
public relations agency.

Peter Mandelson, who is possibly Mr Blair's most trusted adviser on political
tactics, is now back in pole position to be appointed Britain's Commissioner in
Brussels, following the French decision last week to block one of the current
commissioners, Chris Patten, from becoming the next Commission head.

That decision will mean another EU summit before the end of June to choose the
new President. The pressure will be on Mr Blair to decide before then who the
new British commissioners will be.

Special report, page 20; Comment, pages 24 and 25

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              76 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

THE EU CONSTITUTION: LEADERS UNDER FIRE FROM RIGHT - AND POPE

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR Knapman: UKIP leader calls for immediate
referendum

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 572 words


Tony Blair will try to kick-start the campaign for a "yes" vote in the
referendum on the European constitution tomorrow when he goes before Parliament
to argue that all the main British concerns about the document have now been
met.

But the Prime Minister will face an uphill task, particularly after this month's
elections, which saw 12 members of the UK Independence Party elected to the
European Parliament, which they have vowed to "wreck".

Other heads of government also found themselves under fire at home over the
deal. Spain's Prime Minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, was accused by the
conservative opposition of accepting a reformed voting system that excluded
their nation from "the group of important countries".

The Polish Prime Minister, Marek Belka, faced similar criticism from the right.

Even the Pope added to criticism of the 300-page document, agreed yesterday
morning, for its absence of any reference to religion.

Mr Blair's position was boosted yesterday by the employers' organisation, the
CBI, which praised him for protecting the "flexibility" of the British labour
market.

Employers had feared that the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is
written into the new constitution, would give back to the trade unions rights
taken away from them when Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minister. But during last
week's Brussels summit, Mr Blair successfully fought for a rider to be added,
that the charter must take "due regard" of national law.

Digby Jones, the CBI's director-general, said: "The Prime Minister deserves
praise for protecting British interests on tax, employment law and social and
economic policy."

Praise from industry may aggravate Mr Blair's problems with the Labour left and
with some of the big unions, who are looking enviously at the rights enjoyed by
their European counterparts.

One Labour MP, John Cryer, warned that up to 40 of his colleagues could join the
"no" camp in a referendum on the constitution because "it contains all sorts of
nasties".

The former sports minister Kate Hoey said voters would rightly reject it in a
referendum. "This deal is bad for working people. It is essential for us to have
full control over areas like health, education and social policy so we are able
to deliver a Labour agenda. But with this deal we could be outvoted in all these
areas. Labour voters won't have it, and I don't blame them."

UKIP's leader, Roger Knapman, has challenged Mr Blair to hold the referendum
immediately and resign if he loses. There was also a sustained attack from the
Conservatives. Their foreign affairs spokesman, Michael Ancram, said: "It is
incredible that government ministers are still claiming that this centralising
constitution, which they also used to oppose, is actually a good deal for
Britain; and they are defending it not on what they've won, but on what they
haven't lost. Who do they think they're duping?"

But the Liberal Democrat leader, Charles Kennedy, defended the constitution:
"Now that the debate will be properly engaged about Europe it is essential for
pro-Europeans to expose the hollow myths being peddled by the Conservative
leadership and UKIP."

Joaquin Navarro-Valls, a Vatican spokesman, expressed regret "for the opposition
of some governments to the explicit recognition of Europe's Christian roots".

Leading article,and John Rentoul, page 24; Alan Watkins, page 25

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              77 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

THE EU CONSTITUTION: MUDDLED MESSAGE DELIVERED BY PRO-EUROPE' PREMIER

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 609 words


One of those things that Tony Blair has always meant to do, but somehow never
found the time, was to explain to the British people exactly what are the
benefits of being a member of the European club.

Although he professes to be the most pro-European Prime Minister since Edward
Heath, he has been a disappointment to fellow enthusiasts for the European
project. After seven years in power, he has got us no nearer than the wretched
John Major ever did to joining the European single currency.

That he has come back from Brussels having struck a reasonably good deal over
the proposed European constitution does not mean that we will ever sign up to
it, either. Nobody believes that if a referendum were held in the present
climate the public would vote for it - which is exactly why the leader of the UK
Independence Party, Roger Knapman, challenged Mr Blair to hold the referendum at
once and to resign if he loses.

Nonetheless, there are straws in the wind that may help Mr Blair get the result
he wants from a referendum. One, perversely, is the sudden success of the UKIP
in securing 12 seats in the European Parliament.

Their rise will muddle the message coming out of the "no" camp in a referendum.
Michael Howard wants to fight a campaign that says "yes" to membership of a free
trade association with the Continent, but "no" to the encroachment of Brussels
into political matters that ought to be left to elected national parliaments. A
crucial part of this message is that voting "no" to the EU constitution is
emphatically not a step towards outright withdrawal from the EU.

But there can only be two sides in a referendum campaign. People are not invited
to vote different shades of "no". On the same side as Michael Howard will be the
attention-grabbing Robert Kilroy-Silk and the mega- rich Yorkshire businessman
Paul Sykes, whose uncompromising message is to get out altogether.

Into the same bed will climb other strange fellows from the left of the Labour
Party. While Howard et al will attack Brussels for wanting to impose too much
regulation on business, their left-wing cohabitees will be calling for a
rejection of the constitution for precisely the opposite reason, that they do
not want European competition laws forced on them, while they would like the
trade union privileges which the new constitution does not grant them.

In the circumstances, it is not surprising that the putative organiser of the
"no" campaign, Sir Brian Williamson, indicated it is planning a campaign in
which showbiz personalities will play a more prominent role than politicians. It
will be interesting to see how semi-retired comedians and rock stars deal with
detailed questions about, say, qualified majority voting or the principle of
subsidiarity.

On the other side will be most of the Labour Party, the entire Liberal Democrat
party, and a voter-friendly segment of the Conservative Party headed by Kenneth
Clarke and Lord Heseltine, and some prominent representatives of business
interests, all singing approximately the same tune.

The other constant refrain of pro-Europeans is that people distrust the EU
because all they ever hear is the wailing of Eurosceptics and their allies in
the media. The case for membership is seldom heard.

This is what lies behind yesterday's optimistic forecast from the Vice-
President of the Commission, Neil Kinnock, that a referendum can deliver a "yes"
vote. "I think the strong probability is that familiarity and comprehension does
assist with removing fears and getting rid of the legends and building support
for engagement in the EU," he told the Today programme.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              78 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

SPECIAL REPORT: THE EU CONSTITUTION: BLAIR COMES UNDER FIRE FROM LEFT AND RIGHT
OVER EU REFERENDUM

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Final Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 373 words


Tony Blair will try to kick-start the campaign for a "yes" vote in the
referendum on the European constitution tomorrow when he goes before Parliament
to argue that all the main British concerns about the document have now been
met. But the Prime Minister will face an uphill task, particularly after this
month's elections, that saw 12 members of the UK Independence Party elected to
the European Parliament, which they have vowed to "wreck".

Mr Blair's position was boosted yesterday by the employers' organisation, the
CBI, which praised him for protecting the "flexibility" of the British labour
market. Employers had feared that the European Charter of Fundamental Rights,
written into the new constitution, would restore the trade unions rights taken
away under Margaret Thatcher.

Digby Jones, the CBI's director-general, said: "The Prime Minister deserves
praise for protecting British interests on tax, employment law and social and
economic policy."

But praise from industry may aggravate Mr Blair's problems with the Labour left
and with some of the big unions, who are looking enviously at the rights enjoyed
by their European counterparts. The former sports minister Kate Hoey said voters
would rightly reject it in a referendum. "This deal is bad for working people.
It is essential for us to have full control over areas like health, education
and social policy so we are able to deliver a Labour agenda."

UKIP leader, Roger Knapman, has challenged Mr Blair to hold the referendum
immediately and resign if he loses. The constitution also came under a sustained
attack from the Conservatives. Their foreign affairs spokesman, Michael Ancram,
said: "It is incredible that government ministers are still claiming that this
centralising constitution, which they also used to oppose, is actually a good
deal for Britain; and they are defending it not on what they've won, but on what
they haven't lost. Who do they think they're duping?"

But the Liberal Democrat leader, Charles Kennedy, defended the constitution.
"Now that the debate will be properly engaged about Europe it is essential for
pro-Europeans to expose the hollow myths being peddled by the Conservative
leadership and UKIP," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              79 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

HIS POLICY ON EUROPE IS A FAILURE. BUT CAN YOU REALLY BLAME THE MAN?

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1157 words


Tony Blair's policy towards the European Union has been a failure, but it is not
his fault. Whatever the negotiating triumphs, real or pretended, secured by the
Prime Minister at Brussels on Friday night, the big picture is that he is not
where he wanted to be.

He assumed that simply by being in power for seven years, a pro-European
government would change the terms of Britain's relationship with the Union. It
hasn't really. It may no longer be assumed by our partners that Britain will be
automatically hostile to any proposal for more co-operation, but they do not
think that we are enthusiasts either. It was the 1980s all over again when
Jacques Chirac said that the ambitions of the Brussels summit had been reduced
"by the clear position of one country". Just in case anyone thought he meant
Latvia, he helpfully identified the culprit as "le Royaume-Uni".

Even allowing for the greasepaint factor, Chirac's outburst contained a truth:
Britain is different. As the only large member state outside the euro, that
cannot be contradicted. But it goes a lot deeper than that.

Blair is at the mercy of the forces of history more than his rhetoric or pride
will ever allow. It should be clear by now that the European cause has gone
backwards over the seven years of his prime ministership. Pro-European ministers
glumly acknowledge this in private. One said last week that he used to think
ahead to 2015 and conclude that Britain was bound to have adopted the euro by
then; therefore we should do so as early as possible in order to gain the
benefits and have a say in how it is run. But now 2015 looks optimistic and
there may be a referendum on the EU constitution to win - or lose - first.

This backsliding has happened not because of some failing on the part of Blair,
but because the reasons why much of the British political class was persuaded we
needed the euro no longer apply. Labour decided that European monetary union was
its way of being trusted to run the economy responsibly, and especially was its
guarantee against inflation. But inflation is a folk memory of the days before
mobile phones and as time goes by the credibility of an independent Bank of
England has grown while the case for adopting the euro has consequently
diminished.

A different version of the same arguments impressed big business. But, as Blair
keeps pointing out, in order to cover the embarrassment of his retreat, no
prominent business leader is insisting that now is the right time to join.

More broadly, "Europe was a liferaft to cling to", as Sunder Katwala puts it in
the next issue of Prospect. The new general secretary of the pro-European Fabian
Society points out that in the 1970s, the case for joining, and remaining in,
the EEC was a defeatist "argument from decline". Now, Britain has one of
Europe's most successful economies, and even the gap between our public services
and those on the continent is narrowing. The force of the argument for deepening
our attachment is therefore weakening.

That allows even older currents in British popular culture to reassert
themselves. One of the books that is well thumbed by Blair's advisers in No 10
is Andrew Gamble's latest, Between Europe and America: The Future of British
Politics. It is a brilliant analysis of the long historical roots of Britain's
ambiguous attitude to the EU. He describes how the Empire and the former Empire,
including the United States, has been seen for three centuries as a global
trading network centred on London.

When the UK Independence Party or Conservative Eurosceptics portray mainland
Europe as the source of "all our problems" (as Margaret Thatcher once memorably
said, prompting the quizzical response from Kenneth Clarke, "Well, it's a point
of view, isn't it?"), they are drinking from ancient wells of suspicion.

So the problem that Blair faced when he entered Downing Street in 1997 was not
simply that the Conservative civil war had poisoned the ground. It was not even
that he had a lot of catching up to do after successive British governments had
joined each advance towards European unity late and unprepared. He had to try to
shift some even more fundamental assumptions about Britain's place in the world.

That is why those pro-Europeans who thought it would be terribly glamorous to
fight and lose a referendum on the euro in Blair's first term were so deluded. A
referendum on the currency has never looked remotely winnable, not even in the
first 100 days of post-election euphoria in 1997. The constant refrain is that
Blair has failed to give a lead on Europe, as if there were some magic
pixie-dust in a bottle marked "vote-winning charisma" that could neutralise the
anti-European press and transform a fundamental pattern in British public
opinion within months.

That is yielding too much to the power of the individual to shape history.
Whatever Blair's romantic notion of himself, it was never in his power to
overcome such tectonic forces.

Equally delusional are the demands - from pro-Europeans and anti-Europeans alike
- that this country decide its relationship with the rest of Europe "once and
for all". Why should it? The referendum on the EU constitution is supposed to be
such an opportunity. But so was the referendum in 1975 - why should a new
referendum be decisive? Especially when, if Britain votes No - or the Czechs or
the Danes save Blair's blushes by doing it first - nothing much will happen? The
Union will muddle on and come up with other ways of improving its
decision-making as even more countries join.

What no one is saying is that there is no need to join the eurozone, although we
should have that option, and we do not need the constitution either, but might
go along with it if we can be sure it is harmless. That is Blair's position, but
he cannot say it quite so bluntly. Not least because it would be an admission of
failure, measured against his rhetoric of fulfilling Britain's "destiny" of
being "at the heart of Europe".

He is a remarkable politician, because he was quite sincere every time he
repeated it, yet he never really meant it, because he also sincerely believes -
"it is an article of faith with me" - that Britain's place in the world is at
America's side. He just does not admit the contradiction - that is glossed over:
"if there are tensions, resolve them", he said last week.

His pre-summit news conference in Downing Street contained several classic
examples of Blairspeak. Britain was different, or "almost unique", he boasted,
as "the strongest ally" of the US, the most powerful nation in the world, and a
member of "the biggest political alliance and biggest economic market in the
world", the EU. "Why should we give either of these two things up?"

In the last century, Britain's leaders saw their job as being to manage decline.
Blair seems to see his as being to manage ambiguity. For that, he is a natural.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              80 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

LEADING ARTICLE: WITH A REFERENDUM AHEAD, BLAIR MUST START SAYING YES

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 536 words


The Yes campaign for the European referendum starts ... not yet. For a day
comparable to 17 September 1787, when the final text of the US constitution was
approved in Philadelphia, Friday in Brussels was a flat affair. The American
drafters were conscious that they were actors on the stage of history; the
European leaders who agreed the wording of the Constitution of the European
Union seemed to be looking no further than their next news conference.

To be fair, the EU constitution is not the foundation of a new nation, but then
it is more than a mere tidying-up exercise, as it was initially described by
British ministers. Now Tony Blair has to sell it. His diffident performance in
answer to journalists' questions after the deal suggests that he has not yet
fully engaged with the urgency of winning the referendum he has promised. He may
still be half hoping that the constitution will be thrown out by one of the
other seven countries holding referendums - because it falls if a single country
fails to ratify it. He cannot afford such insouciance. Now that we know what we
are voting on, the referendum campaign effectively started this weekend.

It is important to recognise that the No campaign is not as strong as it looks.
The Sun and the Daily Mail denounced Friday's deal as a sell- out of British
sovereignty, but that charge was undercut by the promise of a referendum. It is
striking that the anti-Europeans cannot frighten people with tangible threats
posed by the constitution. John Cryer, the putative leader of the Labour No
campaign, is reduced to: "It contains all sorts of nasties."

Every time the antis found something that pro-Europeans found hard to defend,
Blair got it taken out. It was defensive politics, but necessary. The final
example was the Charter of Fundamental Rights. The real objection to it is that
it pointlessly duplicates much of the European Convention on Human Rights, a
separate treaty that predates the EU. But the issue was fixed by requiring the
EU court to interpret it with "due regard" to national law.

And the Yes campaign is stronger than it looks. Despite the 16 per cent of the
vote won by the UK Independence Party in this month's elections, those who want
Britain to pull out of the EU altogether are still in a minority. A No vote may
not require Britain to leave the EU, but it would push us away from the centre
of influence and towards the exit door. If every country except Britain accepted
the new rulebook, it would mean that we were not a full member of the club.

As an argument for a Yes vote, this is essentially negative. It may be the best
that can be done with such a long and uninspiring document. Europe's leaders
could have learned a great deal from the American Constitutional Convention,
which appointed a "Committee of Style" to polish its rough draft - and produced
a constitution a mere six pages long. But it is too late for such regrets. What
matters now is that the pro-European majority unites behind a new rulebook for a
Europe of 25 countries that will make it work more efficiently, tackle fraud and
make it easier to work together when countries want to do so. It is a case that
can and must be won.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              81 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

QUOTES OF THE WEEK

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 170 words


This murder shows the extreme nature of the enemy we face. These are barbaric
people

George W Bush

US President, on the beheading of Paul Johnson, an American captured by
al-Qa'ida in Saudi Arabia

I go out to play the game. We played well as a team and luckily enough I scored
two goals, which is good for me

Wayne Rooney

England striker, on being the youngest player to score in the European
Championships

When the public feel obliged to ring the police about a TV entertainment' show,
it's time for some hard thinking

Charles Kennedy

Liberal Democratic leader, on the violence in the Big Brother house

Wreck it. Expose it for the waste, the corruption and the way it's eroding our
independence and our sovereignty

Robert Kilroy-Silk

UKIP MEP, on what the party plans for the European Parliament

I am playing as well as I ever have, and my results back that up, but I have to
take that out on to the court at Wimbledon

Tim Henman

No 5 seed, on his chances at Wimbledon

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              82 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 June 20, 2004

100 Labour MPs 'to rebel against Blair's superstate'

BYLINE: JONATHAN OLIVER

SECTION: STH1; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 836 words



REBEL Labour MPs and senior business figures last night joined forces to declare
war on Tony Blair's plans for a Brussels superstate.

The revolt came less than 24 hours after the Prime Minister agreed the
controversial new European constitution at a stormy summit. But he is facing
opposition from 100 Labour MPs believed to be against the new document.

Tomorrow, a new anti-EU group, Labour Against A Superstate, is to be launched in
an attempt to wreck the blueprint. One of its leaders, former Minister Kate
Hoey, told The Mail on Sunday: 'When people read the small print they will see
that this takes us much closer to a Euro superstate.' The Labour revolt came as
the backlash against Mr Blair's Brussels deal gathered momentum.

Two dozen bosses of Britain's best-known companies penned an open letter to him
warning the constitution would send Europe into a 'vicious circle of decline'.

An opinion poll revealed that two out of three people do not believe Mr Blair's
claims to have successfully defended Britain's so-called 'red lines' on tax,
defence and asylum.

And Government officials admitted last week's war of words with the French had
been staged in order to give the misleading impression that Mr Blair had battled
to win vital concessions Mr Blair, who went head to head with French President
Jacques Chirac and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, insists he secured a
good deal for Britain.

And he claimed the constitution was necessary to prevent the new expanded EU of
25 nations from grinding to a halt. 'It has been a tough negotiation but it's
been a successful one,' he said. But he ruled out a constitutional referendum
until at least 2006.

It had been thought the ballot would take place immediately following a General
Election next year.

He left open the possibility of scrapping the vote altogether, if the
constitution is first rejected by another EU state. And, in an embarrassing slip
of the tongue he referred to the 'European nation', before quickly correcting
himself.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael-By Ancram said: 'The Prime Minister let the cat
out of the bag. It indicates the way his mind is working.' Labour Against
ASuperstate is led by MP Ian Davidson and backed by up to 30 others.

Mr Davidson said: 'We have signed away yet more power to Brussels, but nothing
has been done to tackle the scandal of waste and corruption in the EU. It is
another step on the road to a federal superstate. We will do everything we can
to stop core decisionmaking powers being taken away from Britain.' Mr Davidson
said up to 100 Labour MPs, including many ministers, oppose the constitution.

'Many Labour MPs are frightened to say what they think about the EU in public
because they know it could cost them their jobs. We kept quiet during the Euro
elections because we did not want to be accused of disloyalty, but now the
election is out of the way we will speak out.' The new group is to meet tomorrow
to decide tactics.

Former Labour Treasury spokesman Denzil Davies said: 'The constitution is
another slice off our democracy. It is time we got powers back from Brussels
instead of surrendering more.' MP John Cryer, secretary of Labour Against a
Federal Europe, said: 'What bothers me is the creeping accretion of powers to
the mini-dictators who run the EU.' CBI director-general Digby Jones warned it
threatened British jobs and could unleash a wave of damaging European court
rulings.

'Sadly, this constitution does nothing to make Europe more globally competitive
and the jobs of millions deserve more from this document,' he said.

Other business leaders, including the bosses of Carphone Warehouse, Next and
Dixons, wrote to Mr Blair saying: 'We were promised a constitution that would
bring the EU closer to the people and return powers to the member states. In
reality it will do the opposite.' An ICM poll conducted for the Vote No campaign
group following Friday's deal reveals 64 per cent of people do not believe that
Britain will still be able to keep control of its taxes, defence and asylum
policy once the constitution comes into force. And 57 per cent say they will
vote No in any referendum.

Meanwhile, the Tories stepped up the pressure. Mr Ancram said: 'If the
referendum produces a No vote, we want to renegotiate our relationship with the
EU.

'The Tories would opt out of the Common Fisheries Policy, refuse to channel
overseas aid through Brussels and opt out of aspects of the social chapter.

It is time to go back to the drawing board.' UK Independence Party leader Roger
Knapman said: 'This deal is an absolute betrayal of the British electorate.'
This weekend there was further trouble as France vowed to create a 'two-speed
Europe' with an inner core pressing ahead with further integration.

And Chris Patten, Mr Blair's favoured candidate to become president of the EU's
executive commission, pulled out of the race. He is EU external affairs
commissioner.

Comment: Page 25

END

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              83 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 June 20, 2004

The lunacy behind this one-legged policeman

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: FB_S; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1055 words


BRITAIN has its first one-legged policeman. While I admire the officer for his
undoubted courage and wish him well in his new career, I find the news worrying.

Can he possibly be as effective as a constable who isn't disabled?

Actually, I cannot find out.

West Midlands Police, which hired him, refuse to go into detail. They say he has
passed the same tests as everyone else and is doing the same duties as any other
probationer constable.

But he does not want to be identified, and the force declines even to say how
old he is, let alone how serious his disability is. This matters.

Even now, when artificial limbs are so good that some one-legged men can sprint
or climb mountains, it is not always so. It is impossible to know how good he
would be at dodging and swerving as he chases a mugger through a crowded
shopping precinct, or how well he would be able to stand up to an assailant.

His disability might be a drawback. And since the purpose of the police force is
to prevent crime and catch wrongdoers, that would once have been enough to
prevent his recruitment. Harsh, perhaps, but justifiable in the public interest.

Not any more. The European Union, which now makes most of our laws, ordered
Britain to make this change under its 2000 Employment Directive.

New Labour duly obliged at top speed. From October, all police forces risk
costly legal action from disabled job applicants who believe they have been
treated unfairly.

The West Midlands force, slightly ahead of the law, explains the action by
saying: 'We believe that it is important that our workforce is made up of a true
cross-section of the communities we serve.' But why on earth should it be? A
true cross-section would be a comical disaster. It would contain many pensioners
of both sexes, a fair number of fat, unfit people and, presumably, quite a few
convicted criminals.

It is most definitely not the job of the police to be a crosssection. It is
their job to combat crime, not to be a model of political correctness.

Interestingly, it is only highstatus public services that are put through this
inquisition.

The gender commissars have never bothered to bring sex equality to dustcarts.
That is because the whole thing is about propaganda, not practicalities.

The Government's desire to pander to every pressure group's demands, is leading
rapidly to a society in which logic and wisdom are mugged and beaten senseless.

If public services really have to meet such quotas, then heaven help the Armed
Forces when their exemption is taken away by the EU as it no doubt will be,
while we are all busy watching the football.

HOW stupid do they think we are? Does anyone still believe these made-up stories
of the Prime Minister battling for Britain at Euro summits or the equally
invented tales of his rows with foreign leaders? These blatant lies, spread by
the semi-official Murdoch press and the BBC alike, should make us angry, not
fool us.

THE new Iraqi government is thinking of introducing Saddam-style martial law as
soon as it takes over next week. No surprise there, then. But apparently its
leaders, whose power rests on the barrels of American tanks, are afraid this
will damage their 'democratic credentials'. What democratic credentials?

Beginning of the end for Howard's fake Tories

OUR whole political class is pretending the local and Euro-elections do not mean
anything. The party leaders and their tame toadies in the media presumably hope
that if they ignore the voters they will go away.

But what took place was devastating. In the council elections, the party most
people seem to have preferred was called 'No Overall Control'.

In the Euro-poll, the amateur and rather dodgy UKIP took huge swathes of votes
from the Tories, a substantial number from Labour and a respectable slice from
the Liberal Democrats.

Put these two together and what do you get? A weariness with the existing system
verging on nausea, yes. But also a demonstration that a party, which is not the
Tories but has conservative instincts, can take votes from the two failed
Leftwing parties. This is something the Tories will never be able to do.

With a bit of luck, UKIP voters will notice the utter contempt with which
Michael Howard is treating them.

He thinks they belong to him, so he can utterly ignore their concerns because
they have nowhere else to go.

But this argument fails because he cannot realistically win the next Election.
His party machine is wheezing its life away in a geriatric ward. He has no big
ideas and no small ones either. His Shadow Cabinet, a shambling collection of
forgettable nobodies, token women and high-pitched, giggling brainboxes, now
regularly appear on BBC Question Time to defend Anthony Blair's Government.

He is lashed, whether he likes it or not, to the Iraq fiasco.

So a UKIP vote at the General Election will actually be a perfectly sensible
action, and many will take it. It will hasten the end of the Useless Tories and
so bring forward the foundation of the new pro-British movement we so badly
need.

That movement will not be the UKIP, for it will need far more depth and breadth
and height. But Robert Kilroy-Silk and the UKIP are clearing the way for it.

Will Brown do a Blair over baby John's MMR jab?

WILL John Brown, the Chancellor's baby son, be given the MMR jab this autumn
when he reaches the usual age? Will the Browns tell us if he is?

It's awkward. If baby Brown has the controversial injection and they tell us, it
will show up the Blairs (who almost certainly haven't let Leo have the
inoculation but refuse to say). If he doesn't, it undermines the Government
campaign.

And if Gordon stays silent, he'll attract the same perfectly reasonable
criticisms as his boss, for belonging to a Government which uses public money to
persuade us to vaccinate our children, but won't give a public lead.

So I asked Mr Brown's aide Ian Austin. He ignored me. I carpeted his desk with
messages, I paged him and even texted him on his mobile.

Eventually he said he wasn't willing to pass the question on.

So, Mr Brown, please get in touch with me yourself. I think it's a reasonable
question and the answer will give us some indication of what sort of Prime
Minister you might make.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              84 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 June 20, 2004

QUOTES OF THE WEEK

SECTION: FB; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 305 words


'Wreck it expose it for the waste, the corruption and the way it's eroding our
independence and our sovereignty.' Newly elected Robert Kilroy-Silk, of the UK
Independence Party, on what he will do when he joins the European Parliament

'Go home try cricket.' Swiss fans' banner backfires as it goads England to
victory at Euro 2004

'I did something for the worst possible reason.

Just because I could.' Bill Clinton, when asked in an interview about his affair
with Monica Lewinsky

'Is this real-world or exercise?' US Air Defence officer, responding to a plea
for help from air traffic controllers as they realised 9/11 was unfolding, and
revealed at an inquiry into the atrocity

'Serious bidders only please, and no stalkers or murderers.' Part of an internet
advert on which 19-year-old David Vardy is auctioning his virginity, reserve
price Pounds 6,000

I wanted to attach myself to the energy of a different name.' Madonna, saying
she now wants to be known as Esther

'Tony Blair has just stood up in Parliament and condemned the football hooligan
violence in Portugal, yet Channel 4 is presenting rioting as entertainment.'
John Beyer, of Mediawatch, after the brawl among Big Brother housemates

'You've done the diversity.

That's a load of b******s.

Now let's get on with the real stuff.' What an instructor told a police recruit,
according to the Commission For Racial Equality in a report on racism in the
force

'It's a goddam bear!' Shout that echoed down the corridors when a black bear got
into a hospital in Virginia, America. It was later shot

'Oh, if I'd known you were coming I'd have given you a box.' Illusionist Derren
Brown adlibs onstage as he spots rival David Blaine, who provoked both scorn and
awe for apparently starving for 44 days in a glass box END

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              85 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 20, 2004

Eurosceptic wave has the columnists all at sea

BYLINE: PETER PRESTON

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 817 words


CONSIDER the impotence of the press. The UK Independence Party are 'cranks and
political gadflies'. The Daily Telegraph tells us so. They are also easily
pigeonholed as 'kooky, inept and hopelessly divided'. The Telegraph told us
that, too (not to mention the supposedly clinching fact that 'no major
newspaper' supports them). But what did we discover when we all woke up last
week?

That '50 per cent of the voters' don't find their views reflected by major
parties: that Ukip actually managed a 'statistical dead heat for first place' in
the East Midlands: that Britain's 'lunatic mainstream. . . from Neil Kinnock to
Chris Patten', is the trouble here. It's the Daily Telegraph again, though only
its American-based neo-con ranter, Mark Steyn, rather than calmer souls of
greater rationality. Come back Barbara Amiel, all is forgiven.

Yet let's not glide over the central point, the gaping wound to the body politic
delivered by something under a fifth of Britain's not entirely diligent
electorate. There's a populist movement gathering force now that only the
trailblazing likes of Simon Heffer and Richard Littlejohn can openly love. No
editor has more than a weasel word of teeth-clenched congratulation for it. No
paper - so far - backs withdrawal from Europe. But, golly, the crockery on the
Titanic dinner tables is rattling fit to crack.

Watch Simon Jenkins, the heavyweight gadfly of the Times , demanding that
Michael Howard 'must make peace with (Ukip) or face humiliation'. We are, says
not-so-simple Simon, 'seeing the slow morbidity of the EU's body. It will take
time to die, but time need not come between happy necrophiliacs'.

Watch Larry Elliott, the Guardian 's influential economics editor, showing
clearly at last what has long been readable between his lines: that 'scepticism
about the EU is long overdue, particularly on the left. . . The status quo is
not an option, because clearly Europe isn't working. Those who pretend it is are
in category-one denial'.

Once upon a time, of course, the Guardian was opposed to British EU membership,
just as the Telegraph was in favour of it. Newspapers aren't quite as staunchly
certain in their allegiances as they sometimes like to pretend. They turn (as
the Guardian did) when the party they support changes it mind; or when a new
owner, like Conrad Black, imports his own agenda. They bend compliantly before
Hurricane Rupert. And they all have readers to keep on board.

Some of those readers are moving, for the moment at least. Robert Kilroy-Silk,
in his own flamboyant way, has made getting out of Europe a seemingly
respectable battle cry. Less than two months after 10 new democratic nations
joined the union, Simon Jenkins is talking 'last gasps' and urging Michael
Howard to espouse withdrawal (for negotiating or whatever purposes). When will a
whole paper, with full campaigning weight, follow that ex-editor's lead?

It hasn't happened yet. For all the columnar assaults on metropolitan elites,
sceptic editors themselves still dance on much the same spot. The Sun gets out
its best bold type to make clear that it 'opposes Ukip's policy of leaving the
EU' - but otherwise 'does not wish to travel one inch further down the slippery
slope of European integration'. The Times , wishing to redefine euroscepticism
to exclude only the most 'myopic europhiles', worships the same Sun king.

The Telegraph thinks 'Mr Howard should change the subject before the
Conservatives indulge themselves in yet another internal debate about the EU'.
The Mail , which has taken a hatchet to Ukip with almost as much ferocity as a
campaigning Independent , hopes that most of those who voted for the Kilroy-Silk
roaders this time will be 'inclined to return to the Tory fold come the next
general election'. A Guardian/ ICM poll raises exactly the same question and
finds that 24 per cent of Ukip's new voters - 4 per cent of voters at the next
election - would still desert Howard.

In short, the traditional Tory press is all over the place, clutching at straws
and trying to do the interlopers down whilst still trumpeting its hatred of
Brussels. 'Come in Number 10, your time is up', says the ubiquitous Max Hastings
in the Mail . But it's entirely unclear whose number isn't up as columnist turns
on columnist and internecine wars of all-consuming incoherence break out.

Meanwhile, Dick Morris, old Clinton adviser, prostitute consorter and Ukip
strategy gun-for-hire explains to Times readers 'Why I' - an American - 'have
championed the UK's independence from Europe'. Because 'the traditions and
values of the British people are so deeply imbued with a love of freedom'. And
perhaps - on top of his Ukip fees - because Dick gets syndicated in the Murdoch
Australian and Murdoch New York Post as well. Independence, schmindependence. .
. But the puppetmasters keep dropping the string.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              86 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 20, 2004

Labour voters' blow to Blair on Europe

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623 words


TONY BLAIR faces a massive hurdle if he is to win a referendum on the European
constitution, according to a damaging opinion poll out today which shows that
almost half of Labour voters strongly oppose the deal he has won.

The first survey since the Prime Minister agreed a historic deal in Brussels on
Friday suggests he could be punished for it at the ballot box. Nearly two-thirds
of voters say signing the treaty would make them less likely to vote Labour, as
do 49 per cent of those who did so in 2001.

Following the UK Independence Party's strong showing in the European elections,
the findings will trouble Labour, suggesting that it is not only Tories who are
increasingly Eurosceptic. Tory leader Michael Howard will now use the findings
to push Blair for a referendum at the first opportunity, rather than - as Blair
would prefer - in 2006.

Blair begins the campaign to sell the constitution to voters today, with a BBC
interview in which he will argue that old alliances within Europe have shifted,
giving more sceptical countries such as Britain the upper hand.

'The new Europe is one that we can be comfortable with,' said one Downing Street
source.

But the ICM poll for the pressure group Centre for a Social Europe - a group of
Labour, Liberal Democrat and Green figures set up to oppose the constitution
from the left - suggests he has yet to persuade the public.

Blair will use Britain's presidency of the EU next year to set a more populist
agenda, including an attack on Brussels 'red tape'. 'I think even the most
pro-European people would accept that sometimes there has been too much
regulation,' said a Whitehall source.

Gisela Stuart, the former minister who was on the panel drawing up the original
draft of the constitution, said at least a quarter of directives from Brussels
could be scrapped: 'There are things like specifying the length of ladders. We
need a much clearer understanding of what we think is necessary and what isn't.'

According to the poll, taken during the summit, 61 per cent of Labour voters
believe the constitution would give away too much power over 'jobs, living
standards, asylum policy, civil rights and public services', rising to 69 per
cent among voters overall.

A separate YouGov poll for today's Sunday Times found that voters would reject
the new constitution by 49 per cent to 23 per cent if the referendum was held
now.

Pro-Europeans will take comfort from the fact that around a fifth of voters did
not yet have a settled view on the constitution. Both sides in the campaign will
target this 'soft' vote.

The government came out fighting yesterday, with the Europe Minister, Denis
MacShane, insisting talk of a federal super-state had been proved 'a lie'. His
boss Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, accused the Tories of 'scrubbing about
for scares' in the text because their previous arguments against it had
collapsed, pointing out Britain had won an opt-out over asylum and immigration
policy after ceding its veto on the sensitive area.

However, Michael Ancram, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, vowed to oppose the
treaty: 'They are defending it not on what they have won, but on what they've
not lost.'

The Confederation of British Industry praised the government for winning a good
deal but was still concerned it could lead to strengthened workers' rights. It
will now consult members.

But it is the reaction among Labour MPs that will interest Downing Street. Its
Eurosceptic backbenchers are a minority, but could disrupt a referendum campaign
by appealing to core working-class Labour voters hostile to the EU.

Ian Davidson, the MP for Glasgow Pollok, said that he was 'bitterly
disappointed' by the deal.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              87 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 20, 2004

Labour voters oppose Europe deal, says poll: Referendum hopes face collapse as
Prime Minister loses leftist hearts and minds

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 739 words


TONY BLAIR faces a massive hurdle if he is to win a referendum on the European
constitution, according to a damaging new opinion poll which finds today that
almost half of Labour voters oppose it.

The first survey since the Prime Minister agreed a historic deal in Brussels on
Friday suggests he could be punished at the ballot box for the agreement. Nearly
two-thirds of the electorate say that signing the treaty would make them less
likely to vote Labour.

Among Labour supporters, who tend to be more pro- European than others, 49 per
cent oppose the treaty. Coming less than two weeks after the UK Independence
Party's strong showing in the European elections, the findings will trouble
Labour, suggesting that it is not only Tories who are opposed to Europe.

Blair begins the campaign to sell the constitution to the public today, with a
BBC interview in which he is expected to argue that old alliances within Europe
have shifted, giving more sceptical countries such as Britain the upper hand.

'The new Europe is one that we can be comfortable with,' said a Downing Street
source.

The ICM poll, compiled for the pressure group Centre for a Social Europe - a
group of Labour, Liberal Democrat and Green figures set up to oppose the
constitution from the left - suggests he has yet to persuade the public.

Blair will try to use Britain's presidency of the EU next year to set a more
populist agenda, including an attack on Brussels 'red tape'.'I think even the
most pro-European people would accept that sometimes there has been too much
regulation,' said a Whitehall source.

The Chancellor, Gordon Brown, is reviewing European regulation. But Gisela
Stuart, the former minister who was on the panel drawing up the original draft
of the constitution, told The Observer that at least a quarter of directives
from Brussels could be scrapped: 'There are things like specifying the length of
ladders. We need a much clearer understanding of what we think is necessary and
what isn't.'

According to the poll, taken as the summit talks took place, 61 per cent even of
Labour voters agreed that the constitution would give away too much power over
'jobs, living standards, asylum policy, civil rights and public services'. Among
voters overall, that rose to 69 per cent.

Pro-Europeans will take comfort in that 20 per cent of voters did not yet have a
settled view on the constitution. Both sides in the campaign will target this
'soft' vote.

The government came out fighting yesterday, with the Europe Minister, Denis
MacShane, insisting talk of a federal super-state had been proved 'a lie'. His
boss Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, accused the Tories of 'scrub bing about
for scares' in the text because their previous arguments against it had
collapsed. He insisted that Britain had secured an opt-out over immigration
policy.

However, Michael Ancram, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, vowed to oppose the
treaty: 'They are defending it not on what they have won, but on what they've
not lost.'

The Confederation of British Industry, whose endorsement will be vital, praised
the government for winning a good deal but warned it still had reservations
about the Charter of Fundamental Rights - which it fears could open the door to
stronger workers' rights. It will now consult its members.

But it is the reaction among Labour MPs that will be watched closely in Downing
Street. Although Eurosceptic backbenchers are in a minority, they could muddy
the waters of a referendum campaign by appealing to core working-class Labour
voters hostile to the EU.

Ian Davidson, MP for Glasgow Pollok, said he was 'bit terly disappointed' by the
deal: 'The constitution should be put back on the drawing board or there will be
a resounding no vote.'

Although the 25 member states have reached a deal on the constitution, they have
still to agree on choosing the next president of the European Commission.

Both Guy Verhofstadt - the Belgian former Prime Minister who was France's
choice, but rejected by Britain - and the British commissioner Chris Patten,
vetoed in retalitation, have withdrawn their candidacies.

Yesterday Neil Kinnock, Britain's second commissioner, backed Portugal's Antonio
Vittorino for the job. Ministers will reconvene shortly to seek a consensus.

The hard sell

News special, page 7

Observer Comment, 26

Andrew Rawnsley, 27

Will Hutton, 28


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 20, 2004

News special: The Brussels deal: Europe: hard sell begins: With the Vote No camp
mobilising for the referendum, can Blair convince the British the constitution
is good for them? Gaby Hinsliff reports

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1492 words


FOR A MAN partial to a little chocolate in stressful times, it must hurt. The
letter lying in Tony Blair's Downing Street in-tray this weekend - from business
people complaining that his signing of a historic European constitution will
'weaken democracy' - includes the signature of one William Kendall. As well as
being a critic of the Prime Minister's European strategy, Kendall is chief
executive of Green and Black's chocolate company, maker of his favourite
fair-trade snack.

That is not, however, the ultimate betrayal. Tomorrow night's meeting in the
House of Commons, for up to 40 Labour MPs determined to fight their leader in
his referendum on the constitution, will leave a nastier taste in Blair's mouth.

The Prime Minister's opponents are trying this weekend to strip the shine from
Friday night's claimed triumph, when he emerged from a tetchy two days of horse
trading in Brussels with the deal he wanted: no surrender of the British veto on
issues such as tax; the dumping of inflammatory commitments to 'ever-closer
union'; but just enough ground yielded to ensure the decision-making within a
25-member EU is not paralysed. 'It has been a long, long week,' sighed one aide
just back from Brussels. But there is no time to enjoy the fruits of victory.

The task now is to sell an abstract document of mind-numbing tedium, with little
impact on ordinary lives, to a hostile nation. Downing Street's strategy seems
to be to turn Eurosceptic argu ments right back at them. 'We have to align the
concerns that people do have with what's actually in this thing, which is
essentially what British governments have been arguing for for two decades,'
said one source close to Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary.

Worried that Brussels robs too much power from sovereign states? The treaty
gives national parliaments a say for the first time in Brussels legislation, the
government will argue.

Convinced red tape strangles your business? Gordon Brown is threatening a
bonfire of it when Britain takes charge of the EU's rotating presidency next
year.

Afraid Europe is full of federalists hellbent on a superstate? Blair will use an
appearance on the BBC's Breakfast with Frost programme today to argue that has
changed: the arrival of the 10 new eastern European members, with more sceptical
traditions means we are no longer alone.

'The political climate has changed and you can see that from the way certain
people are parading around,' said one Downing Street aide, referring to the fury
of the French, thwarted over the deal.

Yet a week after the pro-withdrawal UK Independence party's noisy breakthrough
in the European elections, Blair cannot afford to pander much to Eurosceptic
fears. By help ing to conclude the treaty, he may have ensured the EU's
survival. But he must now explain to Britain why that survival is necessary.

HAZEL GOWLAND was a baby when her father first fed her a piece of toast and
peanut butter. Her reaction - a rash, and a tongue so swollen she could barely
breathe - revealed a life-threatening allergy to nuts: she now carries
adrenaline shots with her and avoids any food that might contain traces of nuts.

This should shortly become a little easier. Thanks to the snappily named
Directive 2000/13/EC OJ L 109, from next November all pre-packed food sold
across Europe must declare on its labelling if it contains hidden sources of
common allergens, from nuts to milk. It's not much, but it makes life
fractionally easier for up to 1 per cent of Britons who suffer from this
life-threatening allergy.

Such are the everyday workings of the EU. And if you have ever taken parental
leave after the birth of a baby (granted by the Social Chapter), boarded a cheap
flight to the sunshine (EU deregulation of the airline industry fuelled the
low-cost travel boom), or filled up with unleaded petrol (lead was banned under
EU law on health grounds), you, too, have Brussels to thank.

Such practical benefits - consumer perks, the threat to inward investment from
abroad and jobs if Britain is forced out of the European mainstream for refusing
to ratify the treaty - must form the basis of the pro-European campaign, says
Charles Grant, director of the think-tank, the Centre for European Reform.

'Like Napoleon said, we are a nation of shopkeepers. If we become detached or
leave the EU, we will get less foreign investment, we will be seen as a
peripheral economy.'

But the Vote No cam paign, which masterminded the letter in Blair's in-tray and
is bankrolled by a string of wealthy Tory donors - will counter with claims that
the treaty threatens a flood of fresh red tape which business would be better
off without.

Still harder for the government to pin down will be the Centre for Social
Europe, a collection of Labour, Liberal Democrat and Green figures - ranging
from the Glasgow MP Ian Davidson to the trust fund babes' pin-up and
environmental campaigner Zac Goldsmith, son of the famously Eurosceptic Sir
Jimmy Goldsmith, due to launch next month. It promises 'distinctively left-wing
arguments' in favour of Europe but against the treaty, complaining not that it
offers too many workers' rights but too few.

Confused? This is only the start of it. But both sides agree on one thing: they
aim to hit the constitution so hard that Blair will never dare hold a
referendum.

They were cheered by his suggestions last week that the vote could be delayed
until 2006, only months before the treaty must be ratified by all 25 member
states. Could Blair be hoping that by leaving it late, one of the other nine
countries holding referendums will get him off the hook by losing theirs - so
taking the blame for collapsing the treaty? 'It's like a race to see who can be
last, so we are not the ones to mess everything up by voting no,' says Matthew
MacGregor, of the Centre for Social Europe.

EVEN BEFORE the vote, there are other battles ahead. The clash of wills between
Britain and France last week did not centre on the constitution: that was
virtually a done deal by the time the 25 heads of state sat down to their smoked
salmon last Thursday night. The real battle was over the president of the new
European Commission, the man who will drive the EU's priorities for the next
five years, and that is not over yet.

Mindful of the trouble caused by the last strongly federalist president, Jacques
Delors, Britain and several smaller countries last week blocked the colourless
Belgian federalist Guy Verhofstadt, the favoured candidate of French President
Jacques Chirac.

The Irish presidency is seeking a compromise candidate, possibly the Portuguese
commissioner Antonio Vittorino: Ministers will reconvene shortly.

But the increasingly volatile Chirac is in no mood for pandering to the British.

'He's tetchy, unhappy, doesn't quite know which way to go. His officials are all
frightened of him and nobody's giving him any advice,' says one Foreign Office
source.

And even once the commissioner is appointed, Blair can expect a long, hot summer
of sniping between pro and anti-constitution pressure groups.

Immigration Minister Des Browne might have destroyed the argument last week that
EU expansion would lead to eastern European gypsies invading Britain - it would,
he said, be a trickle, not a flood - but the febrile topic of asylum will be one
of Vote No's early weapons. The deal done last week quietly drops Britain's veto
on the sensitive area of immigration policy: Neil O'Brien of Vote No says the
mention of asylum and Europe 'sends people on to the absolute ceiling' in focus
groups. The debate may also be coloured by negotiations over the EU's future
budget - Dawn Primarolo, the Treasury Minister, last week described the
commission's opening bid for another trillion euros in contributions from
members as 'politically unrealistic' - and a decision over whether Turkey should
join. Could a Europe stretching from the borders of Iraq to the Irish Sea agree
on anything at all?

Tucked away in Chequers this weekend, Blair could be forgiven for shoving all
this to the back of his mind: he has a speech to write for Wednesday on
public-service reform, a spending review to finalise, a summer reshuffle to
organise. Power will be handed over in Iraq within the fortnight. There is no
time to worry about a referendum nearly two years away.

Besides, his aides argue, public opinion should shift fast once a fully-fledged
campaign begins, just as happened in the British referendum on EU membership in
1975: there is no need to panic and start campaigning too soon.

Anti-Europeans, however, are spoiling for a fight: the Tories will push for the
referendum to be held as soon as possible. 'Our aim is to build up such a head
of steam by the time the referendum comes close that we are inside people's
heads,' says one source close to the No campaign. If so, pro-Europeans must now
try to win their hearts.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 20, 2004

Comment: The English disease: Beneath the beer-fuelled belligerence of our
soccer fans lie deeper, darker reasons for discontent

BYLINE: Mary Riddell

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1219 words


NOTHING MUCH happens in Boston, Lincolnshire. I know that because I grew up
there and worked as a reporter for the local weekly, compiling wedding reports
and writing captions to pictures of amusingly shaped marrows. The only
noteworthy event I can recall was the day when the newspaper's own offices were
accidentally burnt down during the demolition of an ancient printing press.

Last Sunday night, soon after England lost to France in the first round of Euro
2004, Boston was ablaze again. Two police cars were overturned and torched,
Threshers off-licence was set alight, and a gang of 70 men rampaged through one
of the quietest small market towns in England. Store fronts were vandalised, and
the contents looted. Not since Anderson of the Fens led the anti-enclosure riots
in the 17th century had the rural east of England seen such aggression. 'They
even smashed the charity shop windows,' my mother said.

Next day, in Albufeira, a more familiar spectacle was taking place: 250 England
fans yelled insults at the Germans and taunted black Portuguese bystanders prior
to pelting riot police with bottles. So far, so normal, except for the names on
the charge sheet. Those accused of involvement in drunken violence included the
grandson of a police chief, the son of a catering boss and the child of an
Oxford don. England, the Daily Mail reported, has been 'shamed by the
middle-class yobs'.

Actually, the middle classes are accomplished law-breakers, albeit mainly of the
white-collar type. Whipping up hatred, against witches, paedophiles or fellow
contestants in the Big Brother house, has never been the sole province of the
lowest socio-economic orders. Nor are the two top Aslef executives caught
brawling at a barbecue classifiable as social plankton. Even so, the spectre of
professors emeritus of Sanskrit legless on Super Bock and trashing seafront bars
evokes one of JG Ballard's futuristic nightmares. The mob, it seems, has been
democratised.

Away from the Portuguese police cells, other barriers of class and sport are
breaking down. Wayne Rooney, an authentic working-class hero, replaces the
dandified Beckham as the national idol, and Royal Ascot, once a toffs'
stronghold, is thick with hats from Accessorize, the scent of frying onions and
tanked-up merchant bankers on the pull. A Pimm's proletariat has emerged, while
genteel lager-swillers form the new yobbocracy.

EAGER TO dispel such notions, some commentators are shoring up old stereotypes.
At least two pundits have argued that soccer hooligans are the product of
Britain's Industrial Revolution, when all that sweaty manual work forced
labourers to hang around in ale-houses instead of going home for their tea. If
such theorists read Emile Zola's Germinal , they might realise that other
19th-century Europeans survived workplaces less fragrant than, say, the offices
of Vogue without spawning tribes of tin-bath thickos hot-wired for mayhem.

There is another view, advanced by Cliff Stott, a psychologist and police
adviser currently observing events in Portugal. He thinks that outside threats,
such as officers with truncheons, are perceived as a challenge to English
maleness. That, in turn, converts a group of hardcore troublemakers and ordinary
drunks into a battleforce. Dr Stott's research is persuasive. It introduces the
issue of identity. It allows for the rise of the posh thug in Albufeira. But it
does not wholly explain events in Boston, Lincs, where you are as likely to see
a riot cop as to clap eyes on Brad Pitt.

Other hotspots of UK soccer trouble have their own chronicles. This is Boston's
backdrop to a riot. Old indus tries have died gradually and sink estates grown
up. But the climate of unrest solidified quite recently, when immigrant workers
arrived to do tough, poorly paid agricultural work, such as potato picking.
Though locals do not want their jobs, some bitterly resent their presence. The
incomers live and work legitimately, but a core of residents will not, or
cannot, distinguish them from the bogus asylum seekers of whom they are always
reading. According to a senior professional in the town, the football was just a
catalyst for latent violence.

Obviously, the proximate cause of soccer fights, and most other brawls, is
binge-drinking. Again, that is a symptom. Hand-wringing over how to curb the
British disease tends not to address the many complex causes, of which
insecurity and nationalism are somewhere in the mix. I imagine that the UK
Independence Party has acquired some loyalists in Boston. Overall, Ukip polled
26.05 per cent of the vote in the east Midlands bloc, a whisker behind the
Tories.

Clearly, not all soccer rioters are anti-European. Not every xenophobe is a
beer-bellied pugilist sun-baked to the colour of blancmange. Quite the reverse.
Robert Kilroy-Silk, a shrewd operator much feared by many in the major parties,
is an impeccably groomed example of the thinking man's bigot.

And yet, in a week when everything centres on Europe, it is impossible quite to
disentangle the bottle throwing and the political classes. Yobs berating
'fucking foreigners' in Portugal may not quite be Ukip in designer nylon, but
they are certainly the provisional wing of the BNP. They are also closer to the
national soul than law-abiding England would dare allow.

At some never-acknowl edged level, the country identifies with its hooligans.
The media, eager to whip up hysteria, would feel strangely cheated if yobs all
started drinking carrot juice and listening to Carole King CDs, while upright
citizens are happy to condone summary justice, aggressive policing and whatever
tactics are required to quell those who shame the nation.

THAT STRIDENCY disguises the fact that Europhobia binds some hooligans to their
critics. The impulse that turns a boozed-up crowd into an army also converts a
jumble of racists and malcontents into a 17 per cent vote for Ukip. The genesis
of a political party is, in at least one respect, identical to the birth of a
riot. Both are about creating critical mass.

That is not a defence of soccer hooligans. Euro 2004 has thrown up images awful
even beyond the English norm. Especially horrifying are the stories of drunken
fathers screaming at policemen, as their small and exhausted children look on.
In term time, and way past midnight, tomorrow's rioters are being groomed. Such
images may affront the middle classes. They do not entitle them to pin what is
happening on alien low-lifers unlinked to decent society. Sport may be a
classless activity now, but so is a particular kind of prejudice.

Ukip is on a roll. A Janus-faced Prime Minister tries to sound placatory in
Europe and tough at home. Violence off the pitch and rows in the debating rooms
may be smoothed over. We might beat Croatia tomorrow and fans, from Portugal to
Lincolnshire, might celebrate in peace. Tony Blair has endorsed the
constitution, and this good.

But the conditions that allow protest to fester are barely being addressed.
Discontent, uncertainty, boredom and disillusion risk becoming an indelible
feature of the English culture. In Euro-soccer, as in Euro-politics, unrest
lives on, to fight another day.

mary.riddell@observer.co.uk

A premature end to Euro 2004 for an English fan.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 20, 2004

Comment: One day the bubble will burst: Ukip may have enjoyed success at the
polls, but the referendum on Europe is still winnable

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1207 words


IF IT WAS HARD to reach a deal on the European constitution, the coming battle
on the ratification referendum in 2006 will be even tougher. We know the story.
The rise of Ukip is a reproach to the political class for not recognising that
the people want to say 'no' to Europe. The referendum is virtually unwinnable.
If you're a sceptic, you celebrate that popular sovereignty is reasserting
itself. If you're pro-European, you bemoan the lack of political leadership and
the tendentious sceptic press. But the consensus is clear; whatever Blair may
say in Brussels about how battling Britain has achieved all it wants, the
European cause in Britain is in profound trouble.

I've been in the latter camp of despairing pro-Europeans for some while, but
I've begun to wonder whether the consensus has got this wrong; that Ukip's very
success is going to force a reframing of the arguments over Europe. It was the
photo-call of Ukip MEPS, wearing bowler hats and drinking English champagne
without a woman in sight that underlined that this was a sect rather than a
party - and which is, I submit, near its ceiling of support. Sixteen per cent of
the vote in the European elections was a startling increase, but it was well
below some of the pre-election opin ion poll forecasts - and in the kindest
environment Ukip is ever going to operate: unscrutinised, unchallenged and with
all the appeal of freshness.

But what it has done is to make the British right confront the consequences of
the current political dynamic. All political parties are coalitions; the impact
of the sceptic right-wing press has been to force the Tories to the coalition
margins, and has now invented a party disproportionately competing for its share
of the vote. If the Tories are ever to win power, they need the sceptic right-
wing press to be more considered ; not to abandon its entrenched
euro-scepticism, but to stop short of striking the tone and calling for policies
that strengthen Ukip.

T HE TREATY can be renegotiated; powers repatriated; grandiose ambitions
resisted and mocked, but Britain, the sceptic press will concede if it wants to
give the Tories a crack at power, must stay in the EU because in the end
membership of the single market and the diplomatic structures that produce
decisions in today's Europe cannot be surrendered. This is Michael Howard's
position; commanding the centre, as he puts it, between two extremisms - Ukip's
and Labour's commitment to integration. It may be saturated in scepticism, but
ultimately it is about staying in, forcing a core, if grudging, pro-Europeanism.
The destructive dynamic that has helped wreck the Tories is being reassessed.
There are already subtle shifts in tone; expect more.

And this will be helped by another unexpected ally - facts. The European
Constitutional Treaty is not a blueprint for a European superstate, and the
claim will not survive detailed scrutiny. On any reading, this is what
right-wing historian Niall Ferguson, writing in this month's Prospect calls a
Gaullist constitution - a way of formalising how the 25 member states of the EU
intend to mediate inter-governmental relations, and whose new voting structures
give considerable power to the governments of the most populous countries
including Britain. To turn our back on the treaty is to turn our back on the new
diplomatic structures through which Europe's states broker their deals, and
which has gifted the big countries considerable leverage. This is another penny
that must sooner or later drop.

Europe will be no more federalist than it already is, as Ferguson argues; indeed
Blair has gutted this treaty rather as John Major gutted Maastricht, robbing the
EU of any capacities to develop serious new supranational competences. Looked at
from Brussels, where officials will tell you about how weak they are to achieve
almost anything beyond advancing the cause of the single market and negotiating
trade deals, this is a recipe for stalemate and inaction.

Ideas of a social Europe, initiating major economic reform or creating more than
token defence and foreign policy collaboration launched from Brussels are
stone-dead. The only chance of new pan-European policies being initiated is if
governments voluntarily agree to act together under what the treaty calls
'enhanced co-operation' because they believe it is in their advantage and will
have sellable political paybacks.

Nation states and their parliaments are back in the driving seat in a Europe
that networks through Brussels. As this is our continent, too, Britain has no
choice but to be part of it.

There are more facts still. Sceptics like to write off Europe as an economic
basket-case, but reality will out. Over the last few months, economist Ken Daly
of investment bankers Goldman Sachs and Olivier Blanchard at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology have written separate reports showing that the level and
growth of productivity in Europe is in the same ballpark as the US - and,
excluding Germany with its very particular problems, that jobs growth has been
almost identical.

Last week's Economist , hardly euro-enthusiast, judges that Europe is doing a
lot better than it is given credit for; that much of the difference in wealth
between the US and Europe is because Europeans chose to work fewer hours and
take longer holidays; and that the US's recent recovery is due to the biggest
monetary and fiscal stimulus in its history - and which may not be durable. To
regard Europe as an economic virus from which Britain must keep its distance is
another argument that doesn't stand up.

THE TWO TO ONE majority against the constitution is still formidable - but the
background for making the pro-argument has suddenly become much kinder: the
opposition is shallow if broad rather than deep-seated and focused - and both
clinching anti-arguments and a robust anti-coalition are going to be hard to
construct. Ukip, saying 'no' to continental plots with the best of Protestant
Ulster unionism, crystallises the constituency against Europe - but also
crystallises the con stituency for. Gordon Brown last week used his Mansion
House speech to draw a line under his reputation for euroscepticism: 'A Europe
of self-governing states working together for common purposes is in Britain's
interests,' he declared, insisting that the case for membership now had to be
made. He wants plenty of political water between himself and Ukip; intriguingly,
so does Michael Howard.

The treaty meets Brown's template; it is a treaty that enshrines the principle
of self-governing nation states while providing for states to work together for
common purposes if they choose. It can also stretch to accommodate Michael
Howard's 'live-and-let-live' Europe. Pro-Europeans may have hoped for more, but
this is as far as contemporary Europe is prepared to go. The referendum can be
won; the open question is whether it can be won by Blair whose political capital
is so plainly exhausted. There can be no room for sentiment or wishful thinking;
the stakes are too high - and Michael Howard's positioning well calibrated. The
ground is changing in British politics; prizes will fall to those nimble enough
to move first.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

KILROY'S ILK;
 POLITICIAN'S LOVE CHILD IS TOP MALE MODEL

BYLINE: DANIEL BOFFEY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 247 words

HIGHLIGHT: LIKENESS: Kilroy-Silk; HANDSOME: Just a few pictures of hunky Danny
from the Select Model Management website


THIS is Robert Kilroy-Silk's secret lovechild - and he's a top male model.

The pictures of Danny Beauchamp, 19, show an amazing likeness to the dad he's
never met.

The youngster works for top agency Select Model Management whose scouts signed
him up after spotting him in a market near his home in North London.

An insider at Select - which started supermodel Helena Christensen's career -
said: "Danny is one of the agency's favourites. When you go to their website his
face greets you.

"He has his dad's blue eyes and high cheekbones. But he never speaks about
Kilroy-Silk because he's never been there for him."

Danny was born after the former daytime TV presenter had an affair with teacher
Hilary Beauchamp when he was still a Labour MP.

Multi-millionaire Kilroy-Silk, 62, has two other children from his 41-year
marriage to wife Jan.

He has luxury homes in Buckinghamshire and the Costa del Sol.

In contrast, Danny lives with mum Hilary, 54, in a housing association flat.

Danny has previously tried to contact his dad but, according to Hilary,
Kilroy-Silk was not interested.

Now Danny wants nothing to do with his father. His mum told The People this
week: "I don't want to talk because of my son."

Kilroy-Silk, whose Kilroy show was axed after he made newspaper comments about
Arabs, is now a Euro MP for the UK Independence Party.

But judging by these pictures, it looks like Danny's doing pretty well
Independently himself.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              92 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

SACKED BBC KILROY'S SON IS TOP MODEL

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 205 words

HIGHLIGHT: MODEL SON: Danny


SACKED BBC star and newly-elected MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk's got a secret
lovechild - and he's a top male model.

The pictures of Danny Beauchamp, 19, show an amazing likeness to the dad he's
never met.

The youngster works for top agency Select Model Management whose scouts signed
him up after spotting him in a market near his home in North London.

An insider at Select said: "Danny is one of the agency's favourites. When you go
to their website his face greets you.

"He has his dad's blue eyes and high cheekbones. But he never speaks about
Kilroy-Silk because he's never been there for him."

Danny was born after the former daytime TV presenter had an affair with teacher
Hilary Beauchamp when he was still a Labour MP.

Multi-millionaire Kilroy-Silk, 62, has two other children from his 41-year
marriage to wife Jan.

He has luxury homes in Buckinghamshire and the Costa del Sol.

In contrast, Danny lives with mum Hilary, 54, in a housing association flat.

Danny has previously tried to contact his dad but, says Hilary, Kilroy-Silk was
not interested.

Kilroy-Silk, whose Kilroy show was axed after he made newspaper comments about
Arabs, is now a Euro MP for the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              93 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

BACON AT THE MOVIES: STALE PIE AND MUSH

BYLINE: RICHARD BACON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 269 words


EUROTRIP Comedy CERT: 15

THE plot is as follows: former morning-misery chat-show host Robert Kilroy-Silk
is elected as an MEP and causes havoc in Brussels with his UKIP anti-European
stance. Hilarious and humiliating consequences ensue.

Oh, sorry, that was supposed to go to this newsdesk, not my column.

That said, having watched Eurotrip, I'd rather be spending the time with Robert
Kilroy-Silk. It's that bad.

It's a quasi-American Pie Part 16 in Europe, and most of what made that
franchise good seems to have been confiscated at customs and destroyed. You'll
have seen it all before - it's one of those flicks that has a very American view
of Europe.

France is full of mimes, the Italians are creepy perverts, the British are all
football hooligans, Arabs are to be crushed under the might of the American
military so their oil can be taken. Whoops, that last one was meant for the
newsdesk as well.

American Boy 1 (he's called Scott, played by Scott Mechlowicz, but it really
doesn't matter) has broken up with his girlfriend, and with the help of American
Boys 2 and 3 is off to look up his German female penpal. Quite literally "look
up". That's about the level of the humour.

Sometimes it works, a lot of the time you'll have seen it all before. You may
not have seen a lot of female breasts before, and that may be as good a reason
as any to watch this.

Get American Pie out again and see how it's done properly. Or get American Pie 3
out againand see how it isn't.

The Richard Bacon Movie Poster Tagline: "Oh God, there's even a cameo from
Vinnie Jones. Arrrgggh!"

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              94 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

LETTER: EUROPEAN ELECTION

BYLINE: STEVE FULLE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 54 words


IN light of the European election results it is very arrogant of mainstream
political parties to call the UKIP "extreme".

Many voters are fed up with being directed by Brussels and, by their votes, have
made their feelings quite clear. It is the main parties who are extreme now.

Steve Fuller, Hove, East Sussex

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              95 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

UK PLC is top dog: Who needs Europe?

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: Features; News; 12

LENGTH: 3775 words


Those who stand against EU federalism are cast as Little Englanders, too dim or
prejudiced to be taken seriously. But, says David Smith, they are right.

Britain is better than Europe. Euroscepticism is the intelligent way ahead.

In his Whitehall office, a cabinet minister was bemoaning the fact that the
government does not get enough credit for cutting unemployment -which last week
dropped to 860,000, its lowest for nearly 30 years.

There have been plenty of articles, it was pointed out to him, that contrast
Britain's low unemployment with the high jobless totals in Europe.

His response was illuminating. "That's not good enough," he said. "Doing better
than Europe is easy. The real compliment would be to say that we're doing better
than everywhere else."

Such a response would have been unthinkable even five years ago. A decade ago it
would have been regarded as the height of absurdity. But it is true and it
represents -more than anything else - the reason for the profound shift in
Britain's attitudes to Europe.

After last weekend's strong performance by the UK Independence party (UKIP), in
which it took 16% of the vote and 12 seats in the European parliament elections,
the pro-European Union lobby has been desperately looking for excuses.

UKIP's elected members of the European parliament, all white middle-aged men
aged between 50 and 65, appeal, it is said, to Britain's "golf club tendency":
men in blazers still harking back to the war. Perhaps this month's D-Day
commemorations set them off. Add a perma-tanned former television presenter who
has made some explosive comments about Arabs and the lure of UKIP to Little
Englanders is irresistible, but will fade as quickly as it emerged.

Or, to take Tony Blair's favourite tack, the people of Britain have fallen prey
to the lure of the Eurosceptics because of "unrelenting" Fleet Street
misreporting of Brussels. Voters, according to the prime minister, have been
fooled into genuinely thinking that the EU will give us straight bananas,
compulsory driving on the right and the replacement of the Queen as head of
state.

It is, of course, complete nonsense. Polls show that a hard core of at least 25%
of people would vote to withdraw from the EU and that "softer" Euroscepticism -
stay in but limit Europe's powers and influence over Britain -is also rising.
The real surprise was not that UKIP did so well but that it did not do better.

The message of these polls is quite straightforward. The pro-EU lobby would want
to paint opposition to Europe as the preserve of the uneducated who, if they
could only find out properly about Europe, would be much keener on it. But the
reality is very different.

Euroscepticism has become the intelligent option. There is nothing irrational
about it. For the first time in half a century, Britain is doing demonstrably
better than the rest of Europe. It used to be that we feared missing out on
prosperity by not integrating more closely with Europe.

Now the rational worry -which applies to both the constitution and the euro is
that we will risk prosperity by entangling ourselves more tightly with Europe.

Britain's unemployment rate, on a comparable basis, is 4.8%, against 9.4% in
France and 9.8% in Germany. Unemployment stands at under half the EU average.

Per capita gross domestic product in Britain, according to a new report from
Capital Economics, is higher at $ 30,200 (£16,440), than Germany's $ 29,200 or
France's $ 28,500.

The economic momentum is with us. Britain has been growing continuously for 12
years, during which time other EU countries have suffered at least one recession
and in some cases two. The sick man of Europe has made a remarkable recovery.

"The divergence in economic performance between the main continental economies
and us began about 10 years ago and will continue for the foreseeable future
unless we get dragged down by the constitution and the charter of fundamental
human rights," said Ian Milne, a businessman and author for the think tank
Civitas.

The contrast with Britain's shaky economic past during the painful dismantling
of empire, sterling crises and strikes could not be more stark. International
businessmen, says Milne, now regard Germany as a "flyover zone" and France,
despite a few niche opportunities, as an overregulated "nightmare".

In a policy that would have been regarded as dirigiste in Britain even in the
days of prices and incomes policies, Nicolas Sarkozy, France's finance minister,
has ordered the country's retailers and their suppliers to cut prices by 3%.

The CBI, once regarded as unquestioningly pro-EU, is increasingly critical. "The
model that took the EU through the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s is now failing the
people of Europe," said Digby Jones, its director-general.

"It is not British arrogance or Little Englander to say this. Britain has taken
some very hard decisions over the past 25 years, both the Tories and Labour, and
these policies have delivered the most successful economy in Europe.

"I don't blame anybody who says, 'We're not going to give up on this'. So much
of what I see coming out of Brussels wants to take us back to 1970."

The recognition that Britain has turned the economic tables on Europe is
starting to go deep. Even for voters sceptical about the claims of governments,
there is a recognition that the attraction of Britain for migrants, while it may
have a bit to do with benefits and lax controls, has a lot to do with the
strength of the job market in contrast with most other EU countries.

"The argument is not a negative one about Europe; it is a positive one about the
UK," said Gerard Lyons, head of research at Standard Chartered, the
international bank.

"We have proved that we can set economic policy to suit our own domestic needs.
In a global environment where competitiveness is vital, it is clear that the
European economic model is not working."

INTELLIGENT scepticism about Europe, based on economics, does not imply that
everything is perfect about Britain. We know we have some of the worst football
hooligans in Europe.

When Matthias Matussek of Der Spiegel, the German newspaper, wrote two months
ago of Britain being a "troubled nation", with understaffed hospitals, drunken
brawls reaching epidemic proportions and an island with "more delinquents, more
queueing patients and more gymslip mums" than ever, we can recognise elements of
truth amid the hyperbole.

But we can also see the sour grapes from a writer who happens to be the brother
of the German ambassador. The Thatcher revolution apparently "removed the
nation's core" and made workers "dispensable". But employment in Britain is at
record levels, unlike in Germany.

Many EU countries have better public services and transport systems but some of
that, too, is starting to change. Health systems are beginning to creak in some
countries and in others are being pared back. Germany, for example, is
introducing charges for GP appointments.

Not only that, but the time is fast approaching when Blair will have met his
commitment to match health spending to the EU average. The intelligent sceptics
among voters also know that public services do not pay for themselves. The more
that Europe struggles economically, the more difficult it will be for
governments to sustain services and maintain the infrastructure.

The European commission's own surveys bear out the shift in attitude. Brussels
has been publishing twice-yearly surveys of public opinion in member states
since the 1970s. One of the standard questions asked is whether people think of
the EU as a "good thing".

In 1975, the year Britain voted "yes" in Harold Wilson's referendum on staying
in the old European Economic Community, 50% of people thought Europe was a good
thing. That proportion slipped back sharply after Margaret Thatcher's election
in 1979.

After that, and despite her frequent clashes with fellow European leaders and
with Jacques Delors, the commission's feisty president, it rose during the rest
of the 1980s.

The high watermark of pro-European opinion in Britain came at the end of
Thatcher's

time in office and the start of John Major's era, when it reached nearly 60%.

In 1989 interest rates in Britain had soared (they were on their way from 7.5%
to 15%) and house prices were starting to crumble. Salvation appeared to lie in
joining the European exchange-rate mechanism (ERM), and getting a taste of
Germany's low interest rates and inflation. But Thatcher was blocking the way.

She was also taking an increasingly Eurosceptical tone. Tory advertisements for
the 1989 European elections featured a plate of steaming sprouts and boasted
that the government would not let the country live on a "diet of Brussels".

Thatcher's great obsession was with Germany. The last of a generation of
politicians who had lived through the second world war as an adult, she was
beset with enormous doubt after the collapse of the Berlin Wall in October 1989.
One part of her wanted to celebrate the West's victory over communism. The other
was obsessed with the rise of a German "Fourth Reich", a united Germany,
economically powerful and politically dominant.

She assembled a group of experts, including Hugh Trevor-Roper, Norman Stone,
George Urban and Timothy Garton Ash, to brief her on Germany at a day-long
seminar at Chequers. None predicted that German unification would mark the start
of a period of pronounced relative economic decline for Germany. Most said
Germany had changed markedly in 40 years of democracy and would no longer throw
its political weight around in an aggressive way.

That was not what Thatcher wanted to hear. The note of the meeting, drawn up by
Charles Powell, her foreign policy adviser, spoke of a Germany with national
characteristics that included "aggressiveness, assertiveness and bullying".

Underlying it was a profound economic fear. During the long post-war German
economic miracle, Britain had got used to playing second fiddle. Unification, it
was feared, would turbocharge the already powerful German economy. Even after a
decade of Thatcherism, the government was afraid of the European economic
challenge.

Thatcher was out of step with public opinion. Soon after the Chequers summit
Nicholas Ridley said in an interview with The Spectator that European
integration was "a German racket to take over the whole of Europe". The
magazine's cover featured Helmut Kohl, the German chancellor, with a
Hitler-style moustache. In the outcry that followed, Ridley was forced to
resign.

At the time of Thatcher's obsession, 52% of people thought Europe was a good
thing. In the Euro elections of 1989, the Tories lost to Labour in a national
vote for the first time since 1974. The protest vote that year went not to a
withdrawalist party but to the Greens, who got 15%.

THE pro-European swing continued as the Tory boom of the late 1980s turned to
spectacular bust and Major, who had declared his aim of putting Britain at the
"very heart of Europe", succeeded Thatcher. Major, as chancellor, had succeeded
in taking Britain into the ERM in 1990.

This decision, with the overwhelming support of business, public and media
opinion, was the ultimate recognition of European economic superiority. "We were
saying, in effect, that we could not run these things ourselves so let's hand it
over to Germany," said one senior Treasury official of the time.

For two extraordinary years, the most important decisions affecting Britain's
economy were taken in Germany. Every fortnight, anxious eyes would turn to
Frankfurt and the interest rate verdicts of the Bundesbank. If the Bundesbank
raised rates it was bad news for Britain. If it cut, mortgage rates could come
down here.

Thatcher, dangerously obsessed with Germany's economic might, had by conceding
ERM membership in one of her last acts as leader made reality of it. Britain's
economic subservience to the German economic giant was, it seemed, set in stone.

Even at the time there were signs that things were changing. "Whether it was Mrs
Thatcher or something else, Britain stopped falling behind Germany after the
second oil crisis of the late 1970s," said Martin Weale, director of the
National Institute of Economic and Social Research.

Not many people believed it. Under Major and the ERM, Britain suffered her
longest recession since the war. Falling house prices, repossessions, negative
equity and soaring unemployment were in sharp contrast to Europe's stability and
prosperity.

In 1991, the depths of Major's recession, 57% of people in Britain thought
Europe was a good thing.

By the time Major left office in 1997, after his battles with his own party and
after Germany's unification boom had turned to bust, only 36% of people thought
Europe a good thing. Now, according to the latest Euro-barometer, published last
month, only 29% of people are positive about Europe, the same proportion who are
actively against it.

The catch 22 for the government is that history suggests that we would become
more positive about Europe only if we suddenly started doing more badly here.
The better the British economy, the worse Europe looks.

How do we square this with the fact that Britons seem keener than ever to live
there? A survey earlier this year showed that a third of those planning to buy
property in Europe were doing so because they had "had enough of life in
Britain".

Television programmes such as A Place in the Sun and Get a New Life are popular
enough to suggest that a new life in Europe appeals to many. With 1.4m
properties abroad, Britons are the largest second home owners in Europe.

Relatively few of those who quit Britain for Europe are doing so for economic
reasons. Some have set up businesses, not always successfully. Some have moved
for career reasons. Most, though, do so on retirement or because they have
earned enough to quit work early.

Jacques Attali, former adviser to Francois Mitterrand when he was president of
France, once warned that in the 21st century Europe could turn into a "Venetian
continent", in which it would be "visited by millions of Asians and Americans
and inhabited by tourist guides, museum caretakers and hotel keepers".

His warning, intended to be a wake-up call, appears to be the motivation for a
lot of the Britons who move there. Many European countries have more space,
cheaper properties and a more relaxed lifestyle than in Britain. You would not,
however, want to do business there.

People used to want to retire to Cornwall, drawn by pleasant surroundings but
with not much of an economy beyond tourism. Now they appear to view parts of
Europe in the same way.

Is all the talk of Britain's superior economic performance merely a flash in the
pan? Will it all come crashing down under the weight of £1,000 billion of debt
and an overvalued housing market, so that the European tortoise trundles
serenely beyond us once more?

The answer, almost irrespective of what may happen in the next two or three
years, is that long-running economic trends are firmly against most of the big
economies of the EU.

A study published by Makinson Cowell, the City consultant, points up the grim
consequences for Europe of falling fertility rates and greater longevity. By
2010 the EU's working-age population will have begun a permanent decline.

"Over the next 40 years the working-age populations of Germany, Italy and Spain
will all fall by a third," said Christopher Smallwood, chief economic adviser to
Barclays Bank and one of the report's authors. "And it will just not be possible
to make up the difference through immigration."

France is worse off than Britain but in a better state than the other big EU
economies and has for several years confortably outperformed Germany. If
Thatcher were to repeat her exercise today, she would invite French, not German,
scholars to Chequers.

Rising population is a key ingredient of economic growth. The EU's own
projections suggest that economic growth in Europe will be only half that of
America between now and 2050. Projected forward, the EU's share of global gross
domestic product will slump from 18% now to just 10% by the middle of the
century, while America's share rises from 23% to 26%. Europe is becoming an
economic backwater.

France's Institute for International Affairs, in a report for Pascal Lamy, the
EU's trade commissioner, concluded that Europe was heading for "the exit ramp of
history". Faced with competition from fast-growing China and India, Europe will
be left behind.

THE world is tilting to the east. As a trading nation, Britain has prospered
from going far afield before. That, barring a sudden and unlikely shift in
economic trends, is where the future lies.

Where does intelligent scepticism take us? Most would stop short of the UKIP
line.

Studies suggest that the impact of withdrawal could be modest and might even
produce net gains for Britain. The pro-European argument that more than 3m jobs
would be lost if we left the EU is based on the ridiculous notion that all trade
with European countries would cease and there would be no diversion of trade to
markets elsewhere.

However, the economic argument in favour of some loosening of ties and certainly
no further integration is a powerful one. Faced with the challenge of competing
with China, India and America, the EU begins to look like a millstone -and an
irrelevance. Anglo-Saxon economies -Britain, America and Australia -are
outperforming Europe.

"So much of what has been happening in Brussels this weekend is about whether
France can get one up on Britain or vice versa," said Jones. "But the big fight
is against India, China and America, and that is being ignored."

Blair, like Major, insisted that he would put Britain at the heart of Europe.

Since then he has lost the battle with Gordon Brown, his chancellor, over the
euro, split with France and Germany over Iraq and infuriated his EU partners by
insisting on "red lines" on the constitution.

Perhaps, rather than dismissing the Eurosceptics out of hand, as he did last
week, he should recognise that that is where his natural -and intelligent -
constituency lies.

ROUGH GUIDE TO THE FUTURE OF EUROPE

What was going on in Brussels last week?

Heads of the European Union's 25 member states were there to reach a final
agreement on a constitution for the EU and select a new president for the EU
commission What was the result?

First, an acrimonious row over Britain's demands to retain national control over
key affairs, then an agreement on the constitution was reached late on Friday
night.

However, the leaders failed to agree on a new president Does this mean that
Britain won the things that it wanted?

Tony Blair set out "red lines" defining areas where Britain would not concede
control to Brussels. These included tax, social security, foreign policy and
defence. The agreement reached on Friday means that Britain retains a veto
giving it national control in all of these areas So why are the Eurosceptics
still concerned?

They do not believe that Blair's red lines will prove bullet-proof in the long
term, arguing that they will be overruled by the EU courts. Moreover, article 22
of the new constitution enshrines the EU's influence in many policy areas. It
allows measures to be passed by majority voting. This means that even if Britain
wanted to block some policies, it might not be able to do so Do the sceptics not
have more specific concerns?

They are especially worried about the charter of fundamental human rights. They
fear that this particular document, which enshrines rights such as the freedom
to strike, could be used to override national laws, reversing the reforms of the
Thatcher years. Blair says he has ensured that national law will take precedence
over EU law in key areas such as the liberty to strike. However, businesses and
the Tories disagree. Which side is right may only become clear if cases are
tested in court Does this affect the euro and are we more or less likely to get
the single currency?

Less likely, probably. The new constitution may encourage several countries that
are already in the eurozone to harmonise their taxes. That would probably deter
Britain from joining the euro, even if Blair wanted to do so. There is now a
grudging acceptance that the time for joining has passed. As one official said:
"The train may now have passed the platform and we are not on it."

Would missing out on the euro matter?

While Gordon Brown, the chancellor, who is wary of joining the euro, will not
lose any sleep over it, Blair, who vowed to put Britain at the "heart of
Europe", may wish he had tried to join earlier Is the EU becoming a "two-speed"
institution?

Yes. In return for keeping our red lines intact, it was agreed that countries
which wanted to move forward on issues such as tax harmonisation could get on
with it themselves. Over time a widening gap is expected to emerge between those
allied to the Franco-German axis and those which are not Who are our allies?

Poland and some of the smaller eastern European states which have just joined
the EU seem to like us. They are wary of creating an EU superstate, fearing that
their voices might then be lost. Several sided with us in blocking the French
choice of president last week, for example Will voters have a say on the new
constitution?

Blair has said that he will hold a referendum on whether Britain should accept
the constitution. However, the vote will not be held until after the next
election -and possibly not until 2006. The Eurosceptics will now prepare for a
long campaign to persuade people to vote against the constitution.

It may not come to that, though. If another country -Poland perhaps -votes
against it first, then the constitution may never see the light of day in its
current form If the constitution is voted down, would it matter?

Proponents say that a new constitution, including majority voting, is necessary
if the enlarged EU is to function successfully.

Without it, making decisions with 25 nations may be impossible. If the
constitution is voted down, it could hasten moves towards a multi-tier Europe,
with countries that want closer integration pressing ahead on their own. Or it
could leave the EU mired in wrangling for many more years to come. Either way,
the fundamental problem still remains to be surmounted: some EU leaders want a
federalist superstate while others, it is quite clear, do not


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              96 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

Aaarrgghh to Zzzzzzzz of the beautiful game

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: Features; News; 15

LENGTH: 828 words


Aaarrrggghhh: What millions of England fans called out last Sunday as French
captain Zinedine Zidane's free kick hit the back of the net.

Brill'yant, absolutely brill'yant: The word "aaarrrggghhh" translated into
Scottish.

C'moffit: As in, "C'moffit, mate, I was never near any of the trouble. I just
picked up this broken bottle in the street, right, and I was looking for the
correct recycling bin."

Diamond: The formation favoured by Portuguese riot squads when attacking English
hooligans. There was mounting speculation before the tournament that the police
would stick to 4-4-2.

End of the day: A very busy time for footballers. At the end of the day they've
got to put the French result behind them. At the end of the day they've got to
concentrate on the Croatia game. At the end of the day they've got to let their
football do the talking.

Foreign names: Always good for a cheap laugh. The star of this year's tournament
is Bastian Schweinsteiger, a German player whose name means "pig foreman".

Gravity: It's not just the heat that is troubling the players in Euro 2004, but
gravity seems to be stronger in Portugal than elsewhere. Why else would players
tumble to the ground at the slightest touch?

Henman: Perhaps Sven's biggest tactical error was leaving the big lad Henman at
home. Rooney and Lampard are all right in their way, but the plucky Wimbledon
star is the man you can depend on to hit the net.

Ingerland: A country in which spinsters cycle to holy communion through the
morning mist before being knocked down by gangs of drunken tattooed young men.

Jail: Accommodation set aside for the exclusive use of England fans at
international football tournaments. Decorated in a fashionably minimalist style,
the rooms usually boast a single bed with a small en suite lavatory facility.

Breakfast, lunch and evening meal provided.

Kick-off: The opening moments of a football riot. As the two sides line up, the
England fans deliver a haka to police, pointing their fingers and chanting,
"Come and have a go if you think you're hard enough". The police accept this
challenge by beating their riot shields and checking their CS gas canisters.
Play commences when a bottle or glass is thrown from the England back row.

Lager: The training regime of any serious-minded football rioter.

Motson, John: The doyen of commentators and a great one for statistics: "Oh,
look at that! That chair was lobbed 30 yards from the England defence and I
don't think the big Portuguese saw it coming at all."

Nooooooooooo: A Pavlovian response to the words "and it looks like Emile Heskey
is warming up".

Oh dear: As in, "That's a poor back-pass by Steven Gerrard there, and ... oh
dear."

Plucky: The traditional way to describe a team from a small country whose
players run about a lot but have no chance of success.

Quarter of an hour: The time left to play when the commentator usually says: "It
looks like the points are in the bag for England." Two minutes later the
opposition have made an amazing comeback.

RADA: The Royal Academy of Diving and Acting, specialists in the theatre of
football. "Come on, love, hold that knee and ... grimace. Now wave those arms at
the referee and give us a pout."

Subbuteo: Gifted Italian midfielder. Would play more but unfortunately is very
short and has his legs glued to a hemispherical base.

Tidy: A footballing compliment, as in "they're a tidy little team". It goes
without saying that Switzerland are a tidy team. Just look how annoyed the
goalkeeper was when Wayne Rooney kept leaving his football in the back of the
Swiss net.

UKIP: A group of Eurosceptic supporters campaigning for England to pull out of
Euro 2004. UKIP believes that the tournament will be dominated by France and
Germany and that England would be better off having a kickabout at home.

V-sign: A friendly greeting offered to opposing supporters.

World War Two: For some English fans, this is the only bit of history they
remember other than 1966. On meeting German fans, some still sing to the tune of
Camptown Races, "Two world wars and one World Cup, doo dah, doo dah". They are
playing with fire. Germany has not only won three World Cups but also three
European championships.

Xtra time: When the bar manager decides that it would be too dangerous to close.

Yes, but: A phrase used at every international football tournament in living
memory. "Yes, but you have to remember it's only a very small minority of fans."

Zzzzzzzzzzz: Beckham should play more in the centre like he does for Real Madrid
then we might get some decent service through the midfield to Michael Owen who's
been completely anonymous, mind you, he's been heavily marked which is obviously
why the lad Rooney's had a chance to shine, of course the real revelation was
Ledley King in the France game, Sven should have stuck with him, anybody fancy
another pint?

Jeremy Clarkson is away


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

Give us a real choice

SECTION: Features; News; 16

LENGTH: 695 words


Two things were always clear leading up to the Brussels summit of European Union
leaders. The first was that after a heroic struggle the combatants would manage
to snatch 11th-hour victory from the jaws of defeat and secure a "historic" deal
on the new constitution. After one acrimonious failure on the constitution last
December, the EU could not afford another. A deal there had to be and a deal
there was. The second certainty was that Tony Blair would be able to claim that
he had protected his "red lines" on tax, social security and foreign and defence
policy, and so he did.

This constitution is no more welcome than it was when Mr Blair flew to Brussels
on Thursday. Our poll shows it would be rejected in a referendum by more than
two to one, 49% to 23%. The apparent defeat for the Franco-German axis and the
rise of a UK-led "new" Europe should be taken with a pinch of salt. President
Chirac left the summit a happy man. He knows the "pink lines" -such as enhanced
co operation on economic policy -will bypass some British objections. There is
no reason to believe that the balance of EU power has undergone a fundamental
shift.

The caravan moves on. Mr Blair is keen to refocus the political debate on
domestic issues and away from Iraq. Michael Howard, after the questions asked of
his party's position on Europe by the UK Independence party, also wants to
emphasise Tory ideas for reforming and improving public services. In the Punch
and Judy version of the debate over public services, Labour will claim that the
Tories are bent on privatising everything, while the Tories will insist that the
tens of billions the government has pumped into public services have not made
even the tiniest difference.

Mr Blair now pledges a "change of gear" on public services, with ministers
planning to go "further and faster" in reforming delivery. While polls show that
voters are aware of some improvements in the National Health Service, they also
reveal, rightly, that the government is not getting good value for taxpayers'
money. The process will start this week with John Reid, the health secretary.

Next week Gordon Brown will publish his fourth comprehensive spending review,
raising NHS spending to £109 billion by 2007-08, more than 9% of gross domestic
product, and education spending by £14 billion to £78.6 billion by 2007-08. He
will also announce tighter settlements for other departments and additional
civil service job cuts, but Labour's spin doctors will be working to ensure that
the extra bounty for health and education grabs the headlines.

Missing from Labour's plans is genuine reform. For all the talk of handing power
down to local level and abandoning the centrally planned 1948 model of the NHS,
the government's reforms are timid. Foundation hospitals were neutered by
Brown's insistence that they have no effective financial autonomy. The devolving
of power to primary care trusts is constrained by centrally set targets. The
returns on education, to judge from the performance of state secondary schools,
are negligible.

It would be good to be able to say that after seven years in opposition the
Tories have come up with a radical alternative. Mr Howard, in a speech last week
on public services, rightly criticised Labour's centralising approach. But the
opposition has been drawn neatly into the government's trap. If Labour is
offering tens of billions more for health and education, the Tories feel obliged
to do so, too -£34billion for health, £15 billion for education.

Mr Howard has abandoned education and health passports because voters associated
them with privatisation, instead adopting what sounds like a Saatchi & Saatchi
slogan, "public services are highly individual services", and emphasising "the
right to choose". He promises that the policy, to be unveiled in the coming
weeks, will be more radical than the tenants' right to buy council houses was in
the 1980s. That looks unlikely. Voters have peeled away from the main parties
because they felt they were not being offered enough of a choice on Europe. As
things stand, there is not enough of a choice on public services.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Leading Article

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

Every dark constitution has a silver lining

BYLINE: Ferdinand Mount

SECTION: Features; News; 16

LENGTH: 1130 words


To succeed in this life, you must know how to make the best of a bad job. Not
for the first time the Pope gave a master class last week in the delicate art of
presentation.

Yes, he conceded, the Inquisition did have its unacceptable side. But a new
history shows that in reality it was a much maligned institution with a lower
casualty rate than its detractors made out. The Grand Inquisitor Torquemada was
a decent chap taking the flak for other people's massacres.

By the time the Pope had finished, undergoing an auto-da-fe sounded little more
arduous than performing in the Eurovision song contest. One was not so much
burnt at the stake as lightly singed.

How galumphing by comparison were our party politicians trying to explain away
their ignominious performances in the European elections. Labour had its lowest
share of the vote in any nationwide contest since the 1920s. The Tories did
worse than they did under William Hague, putting up their poorest national
showing since 1832. And the Liberal Democrats finished in fourth place behind
UKIP.

Yet they all stood there with watery smiles on their faces, pretending to be
unaware of the minor earthquake that had just shaken them off their perches.

Michael Howard said he wouldn't dream of altering his policy on Europe and tried
to divert our attention to the Tories' brilliant results in the local elections
(where in fact they secured only the same share of the vote as Hague had four
years ago). Charles Kennedy boasted how much the Lib Dems had improved their
performance since 1999 (when they finished, er, third).

And Tony Blair said it was all to do with Iraq and he was not going to change a
thing either, though of course he was going to be fantastically tough in
Brussels and defend Britain's red lines in the new constitution down to the last
sub-clause.

But the reality is that the past 10 days have been catastrophic for Labour. Now
we and they are saddled with a European constitution that two-thirds of the
voters have already said they don't want but which will take another year or
more to dump.

I don't know which was the less convincing, Jacques Chirac's threats that he
would veto Britain's veto on tax changes, or Blair's threat that he would veto
France's veto. The whole ritual has become so abominably stale and the ritual
expressions of delight when the supposedly elusive deal is finally secured make
the heart sink.

The founding fathers of the United States did not leave it to a bunch of
functionaries and has-beens to do the haggling before turning up to sign off the
result, each boasting of having scored a brilliant success at the expense of his
opponents.

The debate today has been reduced to the crudest soundbites. Blair says Howard
really wants to take Britain out of the EU. Howard says Blair secretly plans to
lead Britain into a European superstate. Blair says that if we say no to the new
constitution we shall be relegated to the margins of Europe, Howard says that
the only good constitution is no constitution at all.

The document which the British government officially agreed to on Friday is
indeed woefully muddled and imperfect, abounding in slithery passages for
Brussels to seize more power from member states and scope for endless conflict
about who does what -the reverse of what a constitution should look like.

Yet it also opens up some promising avenues that could lead to a durable
settlement at the second attempt -but only if we say an emphatic no to this one.

For the first time, a European treaty explicitly concedes the right of any
member to withdraw from the European Union. That is a crucial step in
establishing that the EU is a voluntary association of nation states, not a
single embryonic nation from which disillusioned members may expect to extricate
themselves only with great effort, ill-will and expense.

The treaty also concedes that as a last resort if the EU as a whole cannot agree
to push ahead with something, one third or more of the member states may agree
to do so on their own.

This so-called "enhanced co- operation" is surely just what Howard is asking for
when he says, "We don't want to stop you doing what you want to do, so long as
you don't make us do what we don't want to do." So why doesn't he welcome it? A
multi-speed Europe is already the reality. We have not adopted the euro, we are
not part of the Schengen border controls area, and nobody is worse off for it.

We should also remember that the EU still spends no more than 1% or 2% of our
national income. The irritation that its intrusions cause us is out of all
proportion to their economic importance.

The root of that irritation is quite simply that we have no direct national
democratic input to its decision-making process. Our national parliaments have
been sidelined in the interests of building up the EU without repeated
time-wasting interruptions.

This bureaucratic centralism that is now annoying us so much was the preferred
method of the EU's founders, men such as Jean Monnet and Robert Schuman, and of
the French elite which was always the project's driving force. I think its day
is coming to an end. Chirac is not just putting on his chagrin at the way things
have turned out.

The most interesting part of the constitution is the protocol tacked onto the
end that allows national parliaments to vote down new proposals from the
commission if they think that whatever it is can be done better at national
level.

If a third of EU national parliaments reject a Brussels plan -"showing a yellow
card", as they call it -then Brussels has to review its proposal. Sceptics say
this is a worthless rigmarole, since the commission can still go ahead if it
wants to. So why not equip national parliaments with a red card and a real veto?

Stuart Holland, who used to be a Labour MP and now teaches at the University of
Coimbra in Portugal, goes one step further. On issues where power is shared
between the EU and member states (not in trade or single- market matters where
we do need Europe-wide rules), why not allow member states to call for an
"enabling majority vote" that would bind only those member states whose
parliaments voted for it?

This would surely, as Holland says, help to "offset nationalism, other extremism
and electoral apathy by showing that national democracy still counts". After
all, you do not have to be looking out of a window in Coimbra at a sea of St
George's flags to be reminded that the nation state has as potent a hold on our
hearts as ever. Let national parliaments into the European system and UKIP will
melt away.

Not rocket science, I agree, but it may need a few more shocks like those
administered on June 10 before our leaders wake up to it.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

Why Kilroy is here

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 48 words


WHY KILROY IS HERE:I hold the BBC responsible for the success of UKIP in the
European elections (News, last week). If Robert Kilroy-Silk had not been sacked
from his television job, his craving for media exposure would not have been
aroused. -Stan Labovitch, Windsor, Berkshire.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Points; Letter ROBERT KILROY-SILK (96%); STAN LABOVITCH (59%);

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

Men in grey kilts sharpen their knives

BYLINE: Jason Allardyce and Neil Rafferty

SECTION: Home news; Scotland News 10

LENGTH: 1589 words


IT WAS a very Scottish plot. As John Swinney sat down to explain to colleagues
why the SNP had suffered its third election setback in a row, the mood was
restrained and civilised. There was even talk of drinks afterwards.

In the sticky heat of the Scottish parliament's basement committee room in the
heart of Edinburgh's Old Town, MSPs sat listening to their leader's 90-minute
exposition on why the party had just lost a third of its support. Despite the
savaging Swinney had taken in the media, with mutinous cries of discontent by
anonymous party insiders, the R word was never mentioned. There was no
contrition, no excuses and, more ominously, no plan B.

Before the Euro poll, Swinney had talked up the prospect of overtaking Labour.
In the event only the success of the UK Independence party, which took thousands
of votes from the Conservatives, saved the SNP from being beaten into third
place.

During the meeting last Wednesday, the closest anyone came to criticising
Swinney was Shona Robison, his shadow health minister, who spoke of the need for
humility -the kind of mea culpa speech of which Tony Blair is master.

Nicola Sturgeon, his ultra-loyal justice spokeswoman, mouthed a platitude or two
about avoiding complacency while Margaret Ewing, the veteran MSP whose family is
at the very heart and soul of the party, even suggested the result could have
been worse.

It was what the beleaguered Swinney needed. With the chips down he had the
support of his own people. He had been given the courage to fight on and he
would fight to win.

Yet within minutes of the meeting breaking up, the plotting had begun. In
shadowy corners, groups of MSPs gathered to voice their true take on the parlous
state of the party. Mobile phone conversations were exchanged among the most
influential members of the party -the men in grey kilts -and in that short time
Swinney's fate was sealed. It would be a classic coup d'etat delivered with a
smile.

"When it became clear that John was not prepared to take responsibility for what
had gone wrong, people instinctively knew that his time was up," said one
source.

"His time as party leader is over. It's now only a matter of time."

The decision made, it is hoped that the transition of power will be swift and
seamless. Next week Swinney will be visited by a delegation of senior
Nationalists who will tell him the game is up. He has until the parliamentary
recess on July 5 to announce his decision to stand down.

With the blessing of Alex Salmond, the party's most senior grandee, he will be
asked to support Sturgeon who, barring a challenge from the left, will be
anointed leader at the annual conference in the autumn.

Sturgeon, a former lawyer and youthful standard-bearer of the modernising wing
of the party, is regarded as Swinney's natural successor. Although lacking in
personality, Sturgeon is thought to have what it takes to appeal to the
aspirational, middle-class voters who the SNP needs to stem its haemorrhaging
support.

As Swinney ponders whether to accept the "invitation" to step down, his mind
will be concentrated by the results of a Sunday Times poll of Nationalist MSPs
which reveals that almost half want him to go.

Of equal concern will be the opinion of senior figures such as Michael Russell,
the former chief executive and Salmond's lieutenant, who are now publicly
calling for him to consider his position.

In an open letter to Swinney this weekend, Russell said: "The result of the
European election is a wake-up call and it cannot be silenced by mere
reinforcement of the position.

"Common decency and your distinguished contribution demand that you be given the
opportunity to decide on your own future."

As compensation for standing down, Swinney will be offered the chairmanship of
an influential parliamentary committee before becoming a senior member of
Sturgeon's new shadow cabinet, along with Salmond. If he refuses to step down
and forces an election contest, such offers would be withdrawn.

Friends say Swinney is aware of the storm clouds gathering and is already taking
soundings about his future. He does not want to go down in history as the first
SNP leader to be forced out but he may have little option.

"The fact is we've never had an SNP leader in our history who has taken the
party's support down in three successive elections," said one insider.

The party's lack of electoral success is only part of the problem. Many within
the SNP now feel that there is a deeper malaise, characterised by Swinney's
directionless leadership, which threatens its very existence as a political
force.

The increasingly accident-prone Jack McConnell is experiencing his worst period
as first minister following a series of policy and PR fiascos.

These gaffes include the release of prisoners, including a convicted killer, by
the private security firm Reliance and McConnell's much criticised decision -
later reversed -to attend a golf dinner in St Andrews rather than the D-Day
commemorations in France.

Other lapses of judgment included McConnell's spat with Sir Sean Connery during
high-profile Tartan Day celebrations in New York and the leaking to a
Labour-friendly newspaper of sensitive commercial information concerning job
cuts to ensure the future of Scottish Opera.

The Labour and Liberal Democrat administration should be there for the taking,
but instead Swinney is floundering.

The sight of him failing to land even the softest of blows on the beleaguered
McConnell during their weekly joust at first minister's questions has convinced
even the most loyal of his supporters of the need for change.

The party also remains mired in debt, with an overdraft of about Pounds 200,000,
much of it the legacy of a failed election campaign last year that saw the SNP
lose eight seats.

For a party that was supposed to benefit from the system of proportional
representation (PR) used to elect members of the Scottish parliament, it was a
dismal result.

There is also the problem of the party's dwindling membership which some
estimates put at 8,000, compared with 21,000 for Labour and 25,000 for the
Tories.

The Scottish Socialist party (SSP), which did not exist six years ago, now
boasts almost 5,000 members, having successfully recruited in Glasgow and the
west of Scotland, largely at the expense of the SNP.

Some of the most strident criticism of Swinney is that he has attempted to poach
members back from the SSP by stealing its policies.

To some observers his attempts to sound more indignant than the SSP's Tommy
Sheridan on issues such as asylum are transparent and opportunist.

Recent polls have shown that support for independence is now higher than support
for the SNP.

Many within the party fear that he should have offered the electorate
-particularly the SNP's traditional supporters -the red meat of independence
rather than serving up fiscal autonomy, the concept of more powers for the
Scottish parliament which is also backed by the Lib Dems and senior
Conservatives.

At a time when voters want a party that is different there has been little clear
water to be found.

Yet for some within the party, Swinney's problems are more fundamental -he lacks
charisma, unlike his predecessor, Salmond.

"John just hasn't got what it takes. He's not made an impact on the voters. A
lot of them don't even get his name right," said one insider.

John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde University, agrees. "Swinney
does not have the kind of presence that gets people's concentration, which is
crucial no matter what you're selling," he said.

If successful in replacing Swinney, Sturgeon's challenge will be to encapsulate
simply what the SNP stands for after a series of identity crises. She would need
to project the message that only independence can rescue the country's
underperforming economy and create a more prosperous and socially just Scotland
with better schools and hospitals that looks after its elderly and vulnerable.

Her backers believe that as the first woman to lead a mainstream Scottish
political party, Sturgeon would be a vote winner. But could she save the
Nationalist movement as it faces fragmentation and fringe status?

It seems unlikely that she would offer much in terms of an ideological change of
direction from Swinney and critics point out that she has been tested in
elections before and repeatedly found wanting.

Labour's Mohammad Sarwar managed to double his majority, despite allegations of
sleaze, when she challenged him in Govan in the 1997 general election. She
failed again there in last year's Holyrood contest, despite the fact that
Labour's MSP Gordon Jackson went on a foreign holiday during the campaign.
Moreover, she has co-ordinated the SNP's last three unsuccessful election
campaigns.

Sturgeon has a reputation among colleagues as a "nippy sweetie" and there are
doubts about whether she can make a difference with the public and whether she
has the strategic brain to get the message right.

This weekend there remains an air of unreality about Swinney's position. "John
worked his butt off during the election campaign. I don't believe any other
leader would have done better," said one MSP close to him who hopes he may
survive.

But the dirks are already glinting in the summer sunlight. One SNP MSP said: "If
chopping the leader is the only way to save the party we will chop the leader.
His leadership is dead in the water."


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 20, 2004

WHERE ALL THE PARTIES STAND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 175 words


Labour supports the EU constitution as long as it does not encroach on the
famous "red lines" where Britain must retain control, such as the areas of tax,
defence and foreign policy and the social charter.

The Liberal Democrats are the most europhile party, strongly supporting the
constitution and the single currency. They want the UK to be a fully signed-up
member of the EU, enabling us to reform European institutions from within.

The Conservatives are opposed to the constitution as an extension of EU control
over Britain but they want to remain in Europe in order to reform its
institutions and temper the federalist instincts of the French and Germans.
However, sizeable minorities within the party disagree. On one side, the
arch-eurosceptics would prefer to pull out of the EU completely while, on the
other, europhiles such as Ken Clarke and Michael Heseltine want a more
pro-European line.

The UK Independence Party will not accept any version of the constitution and
wants Britain to pull out of the EU altogether.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              102 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 20, 2004

LEADER DESPITE POLITICIANS' TALK, WE'RE DENIED TRUE FREEDOMS; GIVE US REAL OPT
IONS . . . NOT BAD CHOICES

BYLINE: By Anne Atkins SOCIAL COMMENTATOR

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 817 words


CHOICE, choice, choice. Tony Blair offers choice, Michael Howard offers more, so
Mr Blair goes one better, both vying for the electorate like desperate suitors
trying to win a baffled woman. Choice in education, choice in transport, choice
in health care - choice in everything except Europe. Despite their talk, all
three main parties are denying us choice all the time, as the growing vote for
Ukip shows loud and clear.

It is now part of LibDem policy, for instance, to deny us choice in the intimacy
of our homes, in that most private of relationships between parent and child.

They want to criminalise most decent parents by defining the smacking of a child
as "abuse" - surely the most illiberal legislation most of us can imagine.

The Tories aren't much better. They believe passionately in the "freedom of
choice" of the motorist, so we can all jump into our cars at any moment and be
free to drive anywhere.

But they don't see that this choice takes away many others, some of them far
more important: the choice for our children, for example, to bicycle to school
without being run over; the choice for an elderly lady, who can't afford a car,
to be able to take a bus, which now never comes; the choice to live somewhere
without the sound of traffic, apparently now only possible in four spots in
Britain (three of them in Scotland, I believe).

The choice of the motorist has compromised many other choices, but politicians
just aren't able to see it.

Labour is worst of all. I was on BBC1's Question Time with Peter Hain last year,
when the Government was strongly resisting calls for a referendum on Europe.
When David Dimbleby asked him why the question couldn't be put to the country,
Hain said that we would all give the wrong answer because we read such dreadful
newspapers and don't think the right things.

Never before have I heard such (albeit unintentional) honesty from a politician.

As Henry Ford famously said, we can have any colour as long as it's black.
However much they talk about it, politicians aren't giving us choice. But I
wonder whether choice is what we really want.

I live almost equidistant from two of London's large teaching hospitals. So?

Why do I want a choice of hospital? I can't use more than one at once, after
all. I don't want to be able to choose my hospital, so much as I know that any
hospital I go to will be good. And do you want a choice of primary schools for
your child, or just to have one decent primary school?

FOR centuries England has been divided into parishes in such a way that wherever
you live you have, usually within walking distance, a church that is yours and
in which you have certain rights. For instance, you have a right to have your
child baptised in your parish church whatever your religious affiliation, be it
Hindu, Jewish or Sikh, to be married there, to appoint the church wardens and
elect the parochial church council, even if you may never go to church from one
year to the next.

You have no choice of church but you have extensive rights in the one you have.

Custom is now eroding this, as many churchgoers commute out of their parish to
go to a church that is charismatic, or Evangelical, or high church. This has
resulted in far more division and less coherence within the Anglican Church.

More choice is not necessarily better.

Indeed, choice itself often causes stress.

A few years ago my husband went to Belarus on a speaking tour and one of the
things he eulogised about when he returned was the lack of choice in the
supermarket.

"It was wonderful, " he said. "You went to buy soap powder or toothpaste and
there was just one brand. Think how much time that saves."

When we were first married we went to Norway on holiday and discovered, to our
delight, that there was just one TV channel, which operated from 7pm to 10pm
only. There was just one choice: on or off. It was bliss. Now you can't even
watch the same programme as other members of your family, let alone everyone in
the workplace or classroom.

SOME choices can be profoundly divisive. Time was when marriage hit a rough
patch the choice was between liking it and lumping it, so most couples managed
to pull through it together to reach the good times again.

Now the choice is far more confusing and crudely boils down to looking out for
yourself or looking after your children - a terrible, destructive choice for any
of us to have to make.

And the ultimate cry for choice - "a woman's right to choose" - means a brutal
lack of choice for the other person in the equation: the unborn child.

I'm not saying choice is never a good thing. Generally speaking, choice enriches
our lives and gives us greater freedom. But it must be genuine choice, between
good options, in the areas where we want it - not just a cheap buzzword for
politicians - if it is to have any meaning.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              103 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 20, 2004

LEADER; STUBBORN BLAIR IS DEAF TO OUR VOICE ON EUROPE

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 438 words


TONY Blair should have rejected the proposed new EU Constitution in Brussels
last week. That is what an overwhelming majority of the British electorate
wanted him to do. That is the inescapable conclusion to be drawn from the
European elections that represented the biggest test of popular political
opinion since the general election, in 2001.

A clear majority voted for Eurosceptic parties like the Ukip and the
Conservative Party - with a massive 26 per cent in my East Midlands constituency
voting for withdrawal from the EU.

Only a derisory 10 per cent of the electorate voted Labour. By any standards
these figures are stunning. They represent a rejection of the Prime Minister and
a clear vote of no-confidence in his European policy. The people do not want, as
he does, to be "at the heart of Europe".

So why is Tony Blair ignoring these people? Why is he implying that they are
ignorant, misguided, misled?

Why does he imagine that a belated campaign on his behalf to "educate" them will
cause them to change their minds?

He has a very high opinion of himself, our Tony, doesn't he? Can you imagine
anything more arrogant, more patronising?

Like all the old political parties, he thinks he owns the voters. They might go
off in a "protest", a "wasted" vote, but they will "return" to where they
belong. He thinks that he merely has to announce Britain's European policy, lay
it down from on high, and the people will immediately agree and fall into line.

Well, they haven't and they won't. The British are sturdy, independent-minded
people. They can be very bloody-minded if they think that they are being taken
for granted, patronised, imposed on.

They do not take kindly to being told what to think and what to do. The Prime
Minister should understand they will decide who is to govern them and they are
certainly not prepared to be the subjects of a European super-state dominated by
the French and Germans.

If this is the best our tired Prime Minister can do, he should hand over to
Gordon Brown now. At least the Chancellor of Exchequer understands the EU is an
out-moded Fifties idea that has had its time, that the threat now is not from
the Soviet Union, but from an unwieldy, domineering and over-ambitious Brussels
bureaucracy.

It is, as Gordon says, "fatally flawed" in its obsession with harmonisation and
federalism. It must, as he insists, be more flexible in order to meet the
challenge of the global market. Precisely.

This is why we must have an amicable divorce so that, while we can continue to
be good friends with our neighbours, we can govern ourselves.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              104 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 20, 2004

STUBBORN BLAIR IS DEAF TO VOTERS' VOICE ON EUROPE

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 564 words


PRIME MINISTER Tony Blair should have rejected the proposed new EU Constitution
in Brussels last week. That is what an overwhelming majority of the British
electorate wanted him to do. That is the inescapable conclusion to be drawn from
the European elections that represented the biggest test of popular political
opinion since the general election in 2001.

A clear majority voted for Eurosceptic parties like the Ukip and the
Conservative Party - with a massive 26 per cent in my East Midlands constituency
voting for total w ithdrawal from the EU.

Only a derisory 10 per cent - that's right, 10 per cent - of the electorate v
oted Labour. By any standards these figures are stunning. They represent a
rejection of the Prime Minister and a clear vote of no confidence in his
European policy. The people do not want, as he does, to be "at the heart of
Europe".

So why is Tony Blair ignoring these people? Why is he implying that they are
ignorant, misguided, misled?

Why does he imagine that a belated campaign on his behalf to "educate" them will
cause them to change their minds?

He has a very high opinion of himself, our Tony, doesn't he? Can you imagine
anything more arrogant, more patronising?

The man has had seven long Labour years to put the case for his vision of
Britain's role in Europe and when he finally wakes up to the fact that he has
totally and abjectly failed and that the majority are not persuaded, he asserts
that they need to be re-educated.

Like all the old political parties, he thinks he owns the voters. They might go
off in a "protest", a "wasted" vote, but they will "return" to where they
belong.

He thinks that he merely has to announce Britain's European policy, lay it down
from on high, and the people will immediately agree and fall into line.

Well, they haven't and they won't.

The British are sturdy, independentminded people. They can be very bloody-minded
if they think that they are being taken for granted, patronised, imposed on.
They do not take kindly to being told what to think and what to do. The Prime
Minister should understand that they will decide who is to govern them and they
are certainly not prepared to be the subjects of a European super-state run from
Brussels and dominated by the French and Germans.

THEY certainly will not be convinced that this is the right and proper thing to
do by the Prime Minister's argument that there are good "technocratic" reasons
for the Constitution. That's nonsense, gibberish, gobbledegook and they know it.
Why does our Prime Minister speak in Eurobabble?

If this is the best our tired Prime Minister can do, he should hand over to
Gordon Brown now. At least the Chancellor of Exchequer understands - witness his
Mansion House speech on Wednesday - that the EU is an out-moded Fifties idea
that has had its time, that the threat now is not from the Soviet Union, but
from an unwieldy, domineering and overambitious Brussels bureaucracy.

It is, as Gordon says, "fatally flawed" in its obsession with harmonisation and
federalism. It must, as he insists, be more flexible in order to meet the
challenge of the global market. Precisely.

This is why we must have an amicable divorce and a civilised withdrawal from the
EU so that, while we can continue to trade and be good friends with our
continental neighbours, we can govern ourselves.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              105 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 20, 2004

ROBERT KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 161 words


AT Ukip's press conference to introduce the 12 newly-elected MEPs on Monday, a
BBC j ournalist asked why all Ukip MEPs were w hite men.

It was a fair and a good question - and she could have added middle-aged. We
clearly need to ensure that the party, as it grows, fully represents at all
levels the whole community.

Having said that, I did point out that, at the count in Northampton in my
constituency last Sunday, there were large groups of candidates and workers from
the Tory, Labour, Lib-Dem, Green, Respect and BNP parties, countless council
counting clerks and police and security officers but I saw only one black man,
and he was with me.

Had I been quick-witted enough, I could have asked her to look round the packed
and sweaty room hosting the press conference. Of the hundreds of reporters, TV
crews and press cameramen there were but two black faces, and one of them was
with me.

What is it they say about people in glass houses?

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              106 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 20, 2004

REVIEW TELEVISION; FRANK'S FANTASIES HAVE A BETTER CHANCE OF WINNING

BYLINE: By David Stephenson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 770 words


FANTASY FOOTBALL (ITV1, Sunday) returned last week after a six-year absence.

Not so much a fantasy but a recurring nightmare.

You know the one? It's called "England lose football match".

The now 38 years of hurt were w ritten all over Frank Skinner's deathly-pale
face.

He and fellow comedian David Baddiel, bottles of beer in hand, stared into the
camera from their sofa with a fixed gaze, probably grateful that the show was
only 30 minutes long.

This was theatre of cruelty at its most comic. In truth, they were both still
reeling from seeing England captain David Beckham give French captain Zidane a
peck on the cheek as they emerged from the tunnel.

Entente cordiale is now so touchyfeely. At least it wasn't both cheeks - the
notorious showbusiness embrace.

Call it a Real Madrid smooch, or the sort of beautiful moment from the beautiful
game that would give the growing army of Ukip members gentle apoplexy. We can
only be grateful that Becks wasn't wearing his sarong. Who knows what might have
happened?

The show did brighten a little as post-defeat rigor mortis set in.

Snooker champion Ronnie O'Sullivan and former soap actress Joanna Taylor, who is
apparently about to marry a footballer, were the celebrity guests. Taylor smiled
sweetly at a series of jokes from Skinner (she could do little else) before
being asked to test a urinal-based minifootball game. It was clearly asking to
be invented. As she's engaged to a soccer player this probably passes for Sunday
night entertainment.

She was a good sport.

Meanwhile, O'Sullivan reflected, as much as he could remember, on not having sex
before championships.

Cue many potting jokes, before this potty but enjoyable enough show retired for
the night as someone was heard saying: "We was robbed!"

In the welter of non-shows and repeats because of Euro 2004, Fantasy Football
may prove a more consistent performer than the players on the field.

ITV's "non-show" of the week was Trouble In Paradise (ITV1, Monday).

This was the reality show, launched with great fanfare several months ago, in
which lots of couples headed for the remote Andalucian hills in Spain to a
dilapidated farmhouse, which they were meant to renovate - together. Basically,
it didn't happen.

Last Monday, the winning couple was finally crowned. Carol Vorderman did the
honours. She pointed out that the entire population of the local village had
turned out for the occasion.

An audience at last, I thought.

Maxine and Danny won, as if you care. They are, or were, depending on how the
new B&B goes, a northern club act. They had done the description proud and will
no doubt think of Trouble In Paradise as their greatest ever turn. For many,
though, it was a great turn-off. Cruelly, I thought, ITV jettisoned this
silliness into the long grass - that is, after 11pm - so that anyone vaguely
interested in the show was forced to video the series. I persisted, but felt as
if I were the only person in Britain watching. Sad, isn't it?

The most comic incident happened in the second-to-last episode when, one week
away from possibly winning a GBP 500,000 farmhouse, former cabbie Jamie and
consummate whiner Dee walked off, saying it was getting "too bitchy". Perhaps
next time they should call it Nice People In Paradise Get The Builders In.

SLIGHTLY more interesting was When Daddy Became Mummy (BBC2, Tuesday).

This show featured the Wilson family from South Yorkshire. He was a salesman
working 70 hours a week; she was a housewife looking after their four children.
And ne'er the twain did meet. For some reason, this particularly unlikeable
family thought it would be a good idea to swap roles and have it shown to the
nation.

So, Pete and Martine again went their separate ways in a Wife Swap rerun without
the second family. He fed biscuits to the kids while she watched the episode on
a monitor in a hotel room. When the biscuits ran out, he made them a cake or
something with chocolate in it. The nation heaved. Towards the middle of the
film, he seemed to find his feminine side and I found the off button.

Finally, C4 reverted to type last week with Sex With Strangers (C4, Monday and
Tuesday). This film about the US swingers scene, made by an "award-winning"
director, made the sex-charged antics of Big Brother look like an episode of
Noddy. Full-frontal nudity and S&M were treated as commonplace in a piece of
soft/hard porn that made me think very differently about my next-door
neighbours. It was titillating tosh dressed up as documentary. Is the regulator
watching? We can only hope.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              107 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

What not to wear Television

BYLINE: By John Preston

SECTION: Review; The Arts:Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1126 words

Although I'm still very confused about Europe, I do at least know that I can't
stand Robert Kilroy-Silk. On Monday's Channel 4 News, crowing with delight and
demanding the cameras be pointed at him, he scaled hitherto unconquered heights
of self-regard. The sight stuck in my mind like a fishbone in my throat and some
colossal shock to the system was needed to dislodge it.

Mercifully, along came Ascot Fashions (Wednesday, BBC2), with a group of beaming
oldster ladies each wearing large pieces of hedge on their heads dotted about
with gaily coloured homing beacons. "Just look at you!" exclaimed James
Sherwood, the BBC's waspish Ascot fashion correspondent. "It's almost like my
grandmother's here."

If the chief oldster's confidence was at all dented by this, she didn't let it
show. "No one's ever complained yet," she insisted as the entire field in the
Prince of Wales Stakes pulled up at the sight of her and decided to take the
long way round. The good news, according to James at least, is that this was a
vintage Ascot. "Very classy, very classical" - albeit with some hearteningly
disastrous lapses in taste.

"Ooh," he said at one point with a horrified intake of breath. "That looks like
crochet to me . . . it's quite Annie Hall, isn't it?" While UKIP sees our
continuing membership of the EU as the gateway to Armageddon, James homed
straight in on the midriff issue. "The moment you let people walk into the Royal
Enclosure at Ascot with their midriff exposed, it's the end of everything."

Elsewhere, other big questions were tossed up and insouciantly batted away. For
instance, if you have a "huge moon-shaped face, what sort of hat should you go
for?" The answer I would have thought was one with an even bigger moon-shaped
brim, or failing that a bee-keeper's helmet. But the best solution, it seems, is
something neat and angular to give your features a less planetary aspect.

As for men, "the yellow waistcoat is making a huge statement this year,"
although just what statement was never made clear. "Please excuse me but my
corneal grafts haven't taken," perhaps. And now to neckwear: should it be tie or
cravat? According to James, and I must say this made me feel almost as gloomy as
Robert Kilroy-Silk's egomania, it has to be tie every time. "I don't think many
men can carry off cravats, to be perfectly honest."

Maybe not, but those of us who can - dashing Sunday Telegraph fellows all - know
a thing or two about aplomb. James, however, was saving his best until last. "I
think subtlety is the key," he murmured, as the camera panned across this
living, glugging paint-chart of people. "As this man in the turban seems to have
forgotten."

With only a small stumble we move on to The Secret Swami (Thursday, BBC2), a
documentary about Sai Baba, India's most popular spiritual guru, as well as
being - a small fashion note - the possessor of the one of the world's biggest
Afros.

Baba's followers believe that he is a god. He seems, however, to be possessed of
some peculiarly human frailties; in particular his habit of anointing the
genitals of his young male followers with oil and then pulling up his dhoti to
reveal a far-from tranquil member.

One young American man who'd had his balls cupped in Baba's loving hands
mentioned it to his blissed-out plank of a father, also a devotee. The father,
it transpired, had gone through exactly the same "ritual healing process". "Odd?
No, I didn't think there was anything odd about it," he said, "I was immersed in
an ocean of love."

Just as there is something called me-journalism, in which the writer spends a
disproportionate amount of time writing about himself (see above), so there is
also me-television, in which a similar degree of self-indulgence prevails. Here
the presenter Tanya Datta made constant appearances in a variety of flowing
outfits, while generously allowing us to share in the breadth of her interests:
"I've always been fascinated by the holy men of India."

None the less, this was a sharp, even relentless piece of investigation in which
Datta used her honeyed charms to considerable effect. Various Indian government
ministers and big spiritual cheeses were first lulled into openness before being
confronted with a stack of evidence that Baba was a very dirty old swami.
Whereupon they ritualistically blew their tops and ordered her from their sight.

As for the devotees, or ex-devotees, they appeared to be shell-shocked, still
grappling with those big eternal questions to which there are no easy answers.
As one of them put it glumly, "Why would God want to put his penis in your
mouth?"

I don't wish to dwell on this sort of thing - not when there are midriffs to be
covered up and cravats to be tied - but there was no escaping it last week. On
The Unlikeliest Couples in Britain (last Sunday, ITV), Jill and Steve discussed
their sex life with airy relish.

Jill, who in her daywear looked like the watery heroine of an Anita Brookner
novel, was quite transformed when she put on her party clothes. These consisted
of rubber bustier and thigh-high rubber boots, plus all the bouncy trimmings. As
she walked towards the camera, she creaked like a galleon in heavy seas.

She and Steve weren't so much swingers, Jill said, as "sharers", joining
together with other like-minded people, some of whom participated directly in
the action, while others - as Jill rather charmingly put it - "made love to
themselves".

All the other unlikely couples on show were complete duds, while much was made
in a mordant, sub-Betjeman way of everyone's "quintessential Englishness".
However, no amount of lip-curling and laboured commentary could rub the lustre
off Steve and Jill's peculiarly innocent exhibitionism.

They were filmed going off to a party in Crawley, with Jill putting on a
sensible mac over her costume - and then the next morning when they returned.
How had it gone? Oh, awfully well, said Jill. They had arrived at a large
detached house with - and here she became particularly animated - excellent
parking facilities.

There they had met their fellow sharers, two of whom by happy fortune they
already knew from previous scrimmages "We wanted to renew our acquaintance,"
said Jill, "and decided upon a rotation system. It started out with four of us
in a bed, and then two other couples came in. But I was a bit absorbed by then
so I couldn't really see who they were."

It must have been a hell of a bed, I would have thought, to accommodate four
couples, but perhaps they make a special "sharers" model. Never mind, though,
everyone had had a lovely time - that was the main thing. "We all reached our
peak of happiness," said Jill, her eyes gleaming at the memory. And with one
last creak she was gone.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              108 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

This is what it means

SECTION: Features; Comment:Pg. 22

LENGTH: 861 words

Tony Blair's assurance that the EU constitution "does not create a federal
state" deserves a special place in the gallery of fatuous prime ministerial
assertions about Europe, up there with Edward Heath's "no loss of essential
national sovereignty" and John Major's "game, set and match".

Until now, the EU has been an association of nations bound by international
treaty; once the constitution comes into force, it will be a single polity,
deriving its authority from its own founding charter. The constitution to which
Mr Blair has just put his name gives the union legal personality, creates a
single EU jurisdiction, establishes a European criminal code and provides
explicitly for the supremacy of EU law over national statutes. "This
constitution," says Article I.5, "shall have primacy over the laws of the Member
States." If this is not a federal state, what is?

Labour spokesmen have tried to claim that the supremacy clause does not really
mean what it says, and that Parliament will remain sovereign. They are - to put
it as gently as possible - inaccurate. A declaration tacked on to Article I.5
specifies that its provisions will "reflect existing European Court of Justice
case law". This is a reference to the doctrine developed by the ECJ that its
rulings take precedence, not only over national statutes, but even over national
constitutions. This view has been rejected by most supreme courts. Germany's
Bundesverfassungsgericht, for example, has ruled that European treaties have
force within that country only to the extent that they comply with German basic
law. France's Conseil d'Etat has decreed that foreign treaties cannot override
the French constitution, since it is from Article 55 of that constitution that
they derive their legitimacy. Our own Court of Appeal made a similar judgment in
the "metric martyrs" case in 2002. Now, though, the governments of the EU have
effectively sided with the ECJ against their own supreme courts. Decades hence,
when historians are asked to identify the moment at which the EU achieved
statehood, they will point to June 18, 2004.

This colossal development is in danger of being missed. Mr Blair has a well
tried tactic at European summits: identify one or two fights which you are
confident of winning, focus exclusively on them, and hope that no one will
notice what you are conceding in other areas. He pulled the same trick at
Amsterdam in 1997 and Nice in 2000. To their discredit, many newspapers keep
falling for it. This time, though, Mr Blair has failed even in his own terms.

The first of his "red lines" was the creation of a European Public Prosecutor,
which his Government described as "unacceptable". Yet the constitution creates,
for the first time, a corpus of EU law, with its own prosecuting authority and a
nascent European police force. The second was the non-justiciability of the
Charter of Fundamental Rights. On Saturday, however, the senior judge at the ECJ
made clear that he would regard that document as legally binding - and it is he,
rather than Mr Blair, who decides.

The third was foreign and security policy. To assess whether the Prime Minister
got his way here, one can do no better than to read the text: "The common
foreign and security policy shall cover all aspects of foreign policy and all
questions relating to the Union's security. Member States shall support the
common foreign and security policy actively and unreservedly." This leaves only
one red line which can credibly be said to have stood: that of fiscal
sovereignty. Apart from common rules on VAT, of course. And on external tariffs
and duty free and tax evasion. Oh, and permissible budget deficits.

It is true, though, that the EU has not acquired direct tax-raising powers
(federalists are clever enough to see that this would not make Brussels any more
popular). And, on this basis, the BBC and some other elements of the media have
unquestioningly accepted the Blair narrative of a battle to protect our vital
national interests. Finding himself near Waterloo, on the anniversary of the
battle, the Prime Minister has posed as a Wellington de nos jours, defending our
independence and that of other European nations against a French assault.

This version of events is impossible to reconcile with what has actually been
signed. It is all very well blocking one or two undesirable proposals; but how
many of the things he has accepted can Mr Blair positively have wanted? The
Prime Minister keeps calling for an informed debate, but the last thing he wants
is for people actually to read the constitution; that is why he likes to fall
back on windy generalities about "making Europe work".

There is a huge opportunity for the Tories here. If they can emerge as the
undisputed leaders of the "No" campaign, they will identify with a popular
majority on a crucial issue. But Michael Howard can no longer take this role for
granted. The UK Independence Party will also be seeking to use the referendum to
entrench its position; and Mr Howard is currently constrained by his alliance
with the European People's Party, the constitution's loudest champion. Hard
pounding, gentlemen.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              109 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

Blair sang 'Three Red Lines on a Shirt'. Now for the hard part Politics

BYLINE: By MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: Features; Comment:Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1280 words

From the ridiculous to the sublime: on Friday night, the farce of EU summitry
suddenly yielded the stage to a much grander drama, as the new constitutional
treaty was at last agreed, and the spotlight shifted decisively from the
conference chambers of Brussels to the streets and polling booths of Europe. Not
every country in the enlarged EU will hold a referendum on this document, but
Britain is among those - at least eight - that definitely will. As the heads of
government emerged blinking from the stuffy rooms, a gust of the pure oxygen of
democracy blew across Europe.

The politics of EU summits and the politics of referendums are about as far
apart as it is possible to be. Up until the very moment when the deal was
clinched, last week's meeting was a showcase of all that is least edifying about
such gatherings: the back-slapping of a well-fed elite, the ignominious
horse-trading, the whispered insults, the dishonest use of textual ambiguity to
paper over division, the moments of hapless political paralysis. The UKIP could
scarcely have asked for a better party political broadcast.

But now that the EU constitution has been signed off, a quite different form of
politics has been unleashed. The plebiscite is the polar opposite of the
intergovernmental summit. It hammers ambiguity out of great political issues and
insists upon an absolute "Yes" or an absolute "No". There is no place for dodgy
deals or secret sell-outs. The people decide and the politicians quake as they
do so.

As quick as Mr Blair was on Friday night to claim a diplomatic triumph, the
achievement of a deal on the EU constitution presents him with an awesome
challenge. Mindful of the message sent to him by the voters in the European
elections 10 days ago, the Prime Minister approached this summit in a stagily
adversarial spirit: he was there, he suggested, to defend Britain, to fight off
the federalists, to keep the cheese-eating surrender monkeys in their cage. His
officials boasted of his uncompromisingly tough behaviour, his robust insistence
upon an "emergency brake" in case the EU vehicle threatened to career out of
control. He had, they claimed, a "heated" confrontation with Jacques Chirac, and
charged the French President with treating other countries as "second-class".
Here was the Prime Minister posturing as Wayne Rooney: his anthem for the summit
might have been Three Red Lines on a Shirt.

Now, turning on a dime - or, perhaps more accurately, a euro - Mr Blair must
suddenly adopt a completely different role. No more can he posture as the
British bulldog, fending off the impertinent demands of his Continental
counterparts. Instead, he must transform himself from aggressive negotiator into
passionate advocate, selling the 333-page constitution to an electorate that has
made repeatedly and overwhelmingly clear in opinion polls that it does not like
the idea at all.

For that very reason, Michael Howard would prefer the referendum on the new
constitution to be held as soon as possible, before Parliament ratifies the
treaty. "There is no case whatever for asking Parliament to spend months on
ratification legislation before obtaining the consent of the British people,"
the Tory leader said in April. "After all, it was this Prime Minister who held
referendums for the Scottish Parliament and the Welsh Assembly before this
Parliament has passed the necessary legislation."

The last thing Mr Blair wants, of course, is to risk all in a referendum before
the general election. Thus, he is insisting that the new treaty pass through
Parliament before the issue is put to the British people. Thanks to the
laborious EU process of toilettage - translation into the legislative languages
of the different member states - the ratification bill will probably not be
ready until November at the earliest, when it will be announced in the Queen's
Speech. This means that the legislation is not likely to begin its passage until
the New Year. By then, Mr Blair will almost certainly be preparing for the
general election, expected in the Spring of 2005. The Electoral Commission,
which polices referendums, has already made clear that it will not allow a
plebiscite on the EU constitution to become confused with elections to
Westminster. It is not hard to see how the Prime Minister envisages nudging the
referendum date well into next year and probably later, hoping that a third
general election victory will by then have restored his damaged authority.

But the long game is risky, too, bringing with it the perils of a protracted
humiliation. From time to time over the past seven years, Mr Blair has spoken
his mind about Europe, hinting at his private passion for what he sees as a
historic and glorious projet. More often, however, he has restrained himself,
mindful of the Eurosceptic press and the sensitivities of his Chancellor about
Britain's prospective membership of EMU. After seven years of self-censorship,
one wonders how easy the Prime Minister will find it to shift from aphasia to
eloquence.

Mr Blair has long believed in Britain's role as a "bridge" between Europe and
America. But, as Timothy Garton Ash notes mockingly in his fascinating new book,
Free World: "Unlike Churchill, with his History of the English-Speaking Peoples,
Blair has not penned a magnificent, widely read, four-volume 'History of the
Bridge'." Garton Ash - as far from a swivel-eyed Eurosceptic as one can imagine
- also notes the conspicuous absence of a European "public sphere", the
institutions and cultural assumptions that would support a distinctly European
identity in this country. He is absolutely right. The most notionally pro-EU
Prime Minister since Heath has done next to nothing to prepare the ground for
the grand reckoning which now lies ahead of him. That ground is still barren,
set aside by a Government which has always been fearful of a candid argument
about Europe (whatever happened to the Blair and Brown euro "roadshows"?).

The truth is that the forthcoming debate about the EU constitution will not be a
debate at all, but a brutal contest between two forms of fear. The "No" campaign
will argue that the new treaty marks a reckless constitutional revolution; that
it is, as the Belgian Prime Minister, Guy Verhofstadt, has declared, "the
capstone of a federal state". The "Yes" campaigners will claim, no less
vigorously, that they are the defenders of the status quo, and that the true
agenda of those who oppose the constitution is withdrawal from the EU (ministers
are already relishing the prospect of Mr Howard having to decide whether or not
to share a platform with Robert Kilroy-Silk, whose party he labelled "extreme"
before the European elections). The referendum, in other words, will resolve
itself into two competing propositions. (1) Vote No, or lose everything. (2)
Vote Yes, or lose everything.

It is very hard to see Mr Blair prevailing, even if, for the sake of argument,
he wins the general election with a healthy majority. I cannot fathom the forces
he imagines will shift public opinion on this matter - other than his elemental
self-belief and conviction that he can still persuade anyone of anything. But
one cannot fault the Prime Minister's taste for drama. For the first time in
seven years, he will be truly speaking his mind on the issue which is perhaps
closest to his heart. For the first time in three decades, the British people
will truly have their say on the European question. So much of Mr Blair's
infatuation with history's verdict is wrapped up with his desire to settle this
question once and for all. And now he - and we - will not have to wait long to
find out what that verdict is.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              110 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

UKIP needs no sympathy

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 108 words

In the run-up to the European elections, the UKIP placards either side of my
gate were stolen in the wee small hours on four successive days. Each night the
boards would disappear and each morning I would put up replacements. Although I
realised that they could do little about it, I reported the thefts to the police
as a matter of record and received a letter from Victim Support, sympathising
with me and offering counselling.

In my reply, I assured them that I suffered no distress only irritation, and
suggested that they offer counselling to Tony Blair, Michael Howard and Charles
Kennedy.

Gerry Hanson

Iver Heath, Buckinghamshire

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              111 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

Ground rules for engagement in the battle for Britain The opening shots of the
referendum campaign were fired yesterday, with pro- and anti- camps lining up
for what is likely to be an acrimonious 20-month battle to decide Britain's
future position in the EU. Melissa Kite sets out the key issues

BYLINE: By MELISSA KITE

SECTION: News; THE EUROPEAN CONSTITUTION:Pg. 14

LENGTH: 696 words

WHEN?

The most contentious issue. Tony Blair's spokesman said in April that the
referendum would be called after legislation on the EU constitution had
completed its passage through Parliament.

This means waiting months for a Bill to go through both Houses, with Tory
backbenchers threatening to pick it apart, and means that the referendum will
not be until after the next general election, which is expected in 2005, but
does not have to be held until June 2006.

There are now signs that Mr Blair will seek to delay voting even longer.
Officials point out that Britain holds the six-monthly rotating presidency of
the EU in the second half of 2005, making it unlikely that a ballot could be
held before then as ministers will have too many duties to perform on behalf of
the EU. The treaty must be ratified by the end of 2006 and it may go to the
wire.

The Tories are angry at the delay. The suspicion is that it is politically
convenient for the Prime Minister to try to stall what will be a very difficult
campaign until after the general election.

THE QUESTION

The wording of the question put to voters must be short and simple, according to
the Electoral Commission. It must be in a referendum Bill and agreed by
Parliament after a full debate and ratified by the Electoral Commission.

It must not be open to legal challenge. It could be a multiple-option question.

WHO CAN VOTE?

The vote will not include other EU citizens living in the UK. It will be those
over 18: British or Commonwealth citizens living in the UK, Irish republic
citizens living in the UK, and British nationals who have lived overseas for
less than 15 years. The referendum may be held by postal ballot.

THE CAMPAIGN

From the day the Bill providing for the referendum is laid before Parliament to
the day of the vote, the campaign will be 10 weeks long. It will be governed by
strict rules. For example, all government propaganda will be banned for 28 days
before the vote.

FUNDING

Umbrella organisations, the Yes and No camps, will have a maximum spending limit
of pounds 5 million. Each side will get a grant of up to pounds 600,000 of
public money and a free mailshot to every household. Individual campaigners can
register as a "permitted participant" and spend up to pounds 500,000 each. The
commission fears that this will provide a loophole for both camps to funnel in
more money through a team of supporters registered individually.

Each side must declare donations of more than pounds 5,000 and refuse donations
over pounds 200 if not from donors on the UK electoral register.

TACTICS

THE NO CAMPAIGN believes that it can bring the UKIP, the Tories and
anti-European Labour MPs under one umbrella. John Redwood, the former Tory
minister, said yesterday: "We will have to share a platform with UKIP. It's all
hands to the wheel."

The No campaign will not appoint a leader for many months yet, but early names
in the frame include Bob Geldof. It wants a non-political figure. In the
meantime, it is building a network of about 500 big names from business,
politics and showbusiness.

It has held meetings with Michael Howard in the past week, and claims he has
agreed that the Tory Party should be a part of the No campaign, not the
organiser of it. Crucially, it plans to circumvent the rules on funding by
taking advantage of Tony Blair's intention to put off a referendum until after a
general election. It says this will allow it to spend as much money as it likes
on blackening the name of the constitution in a publicity campaign beginning
now.

THE YES CAMPAIGN, in the preliminary form of Britain in Europe, will meet next
week to decide on a leader. It is facing a struggle after Sir Christopher Gent,
the former chief executive of Vodafone, refused the job. Having tried in vain to
find a well-known, non-political candidate, it is expected to choose a
politician.

Chris Bryant, the Labour MP for the Rhondda and a member of Britain in Europe's
board, said: "This is a marathon not a sprint. It is easy for the No campaign to
bring out people at the end of their televisual careers, but we will be about
the real issues - not clapped-out celebrities."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              112 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

It is not so cold outside Tony Blair says the referendum will be a vote on
whether Britain should leave the EU altogether. But would that be so bad? As
PHILIP SHERWELL finds in Norway, there is life - and a good one at that -
outside the union

BYLINE: BY PHILIP SHERWELL

SECTION: News; Focus:Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1516 words

Jan Arill Nilsen and his wife, Merete, are what count as a mixed marriage in
Norway. He believes that the country should end its defiant go-it-alone status
and join the EU; she is among the 70 per cent of Norwegian women who would vote
"No" in any future referendum.

Mr Nilsen, who operates a shrimp trawler from the southern island chain of
Hvaler, is at odds with many Norwegian fishermen. They are bitterly opposed to
EU membership, fearing that armadas of Spanish, Portuguese and indeed British
vessels will descend on their waters and devour the stocks of cod, herring and
mackerel. "Membership would be best for Norway, even if it's not best for the
fishermen," he says. His wife shakes her head as they sit on the trawler's
bridge. "I just don't see the point. Why do we need to join the EU? Aren't we
doing okay already?"

Views are similarly divided 50 yards down the dock where five friends, all
former or current sailors, sit next to their moored boats eating a lunch of
freshly caught shrimps and salmon with smoked deer. Three voted "Yes" in the
1994 referendum; two backed the "No" campaign that narrowly won the day, as it
had 22 years earlier when Norwegians first rejected joining the then EEC.

Olaf Iversen is preparing his trawler, the largest in the harbour, to leave
today for a 48-hour fishing trip. "I don't know about this EU thing," says the
30-year-old, who inherited the vessel from his father. "I'm not sure if we can
stay out alone, but of course we are worried about our stocks. Look at what has
happened to the British fishing industry after they joined."

The splits divide families, friends, colleagues - not to mention cutting right
across the country's political spectrum. Yet after this month's European
elections, marked by voter apathy and a surge in support for eurosceptic parties
across the continent, Norway's experience is being held up by groups such as the
UK Independence Party as evidence that there is life - and a good one at that -
outside the EU. Tony Blair, meanwhile, claims that those who oppose the new EU
constitution in the forthcoming referendum really want to see Britain withdraw
from the union altogether.

So is Norway, a fellow monarchy with a seafaring history that shares the North
Sea's oil and gas wealth, a possible role model for Britons who want to abandon
the Brussels behemoth?

It certainly boasts one of the world's highest per capita incomes: third place
in the most recent World Bank figures for 2002 with pounds 22,780 (compared with
Britain's 13th ranking with pounds 15,000). The country's trade surplus last
month was an impressive 17.7 million krone ( pounds 1.4 billion) at a time when
France and Germany are struggling to meet EU limits for budget deficits.

Norway has topped the United Nations index for living standards for the past
three years; has an extremely generous social welfare system; punches above its
weight on the international stage with mediating roles in disputes from the
Middle East to Sri Lanka as well as running the Nobel Prize award; and displays
a striking sense of national pride and independence.

Not that you would notice that the country is one of the world's wealthiest by
wandering around the streets of Oslo, its neat but unassuming capital, as this
is not the type of place that revels in ostentatious displays of affluence. The
city has its share of new luxury apartments on the renovated waterfront and
elegant yachts in the harbour, but the streets are not awash with designer
boutiques or the latest marques from Porsche or BMW.

For one thing, Norwegians are a restrained lot who do not like to seem flashy.
But Norway's heavy investment in its welfare state, an article of faith for
successive governments of different political hues, is the most obvious product
of its riches. Norway has also squirreled away pounds 70 billion in a carefully
invested Petroleum Fund as a nest-egg for the day when the oil and gas run out.

That comes at the cost of high taxation (42 per cent overall on a salary of
pounds 40,000, for example). Throw in hefty prices, bolstered by trade barriers
and protection of the country's farmers, and an economy in which some 40 per
cent of the commanding heights of energy, electricity and telecommunications are
still state-owned, and suddenly Norway starts to look less like a model for
Britain's free enterprise-based market and more like an old socialist system
that remains viable thanks to the windfall of North Sea oil.

It is little surprise that Oslo's residents
think nothing of making a two-hour drive to Sweden to stock up on cheaper food,
cigarettes and drinks in supermarkets just across the border where prices are
about a third lower.

One other crucial statistic needs to be taken into account when assessing
Norway's achievements outside the EU - its population is just 4.5 million,
compared with Britain's 55 million. Quite simply, the proceeds of its lucrative
petro-economy go much further when divided among less than a tenth of the
population. "You are starting from a false premise if you try to use Norway as a
litmus test for life outside the EU," said a senior Western diplomat in Oslo.
"The comparisons just don't work."

Norway maintains control of its agriculture and fishery sectors, but even so the
greatest grouse of the pro-EU campaigners, including most of the country's
business leaders, is that the country has to adhere to a raft of other
directives and orders from Brussels to trade with its neighbours (about
two-thirds of its exports go to the EU while roughly half its imports come in
the other direction). Oslo already forks out 250 million a year to the EU
structural funds for poorer European states as part of the deal.

"The trouble is that we are already a half-member. We have to accept the rules
to do business but we have no say in the decisions," says Jens Ultveit-moe, a
leading Norwegian industrialist. "I don't think anyone in Britain would want to
be in that position."

Indeed, Norway has a much better record on implementing EU directives than many
of the member states, as Mr Iversen, the trawlerman, laments. "We already follow
all the rules from the EU on hygiene and quality," he complains. "But you see
the Spanish and Portuguese flouting them all the time."

Opponents of membership range from Norwegian farmers and fishermen determined to
defend their way of life to urban Left-wingers worried that the country might be
forced to dismantle its generous social welfare system by European economic
strictures. The most commonly voiced complaint is simply that people do not want
to hand further control over their lives to Brussels.

It is such a sensitive issue that although most of the country's political
leaders are pro-membership, few of the parties are willing to come out one way
or another as they jockey for possible coalition partners ahead of elections in
autumn 2005.

Next year also marks the 100th anniversary of Norway's declaration of
independence from its union with Sweden - making it a particularly tricky time
for any political party to be lobbying for a third referendum on a controversial
new union.

Inge Lonning, a Conservative party leader who led the failed "yes" campaign in
the 1994 referendum, is one of the few who will put his head up above the
parapet and insist that membership is inevitable. "Just look at the new map of
Europe. It's not a question of if, it's a question of when. Nobody can resist
the law of gravity and there's just one force of political gravity in Europe
today, and that is the EU."

But as Europe's leaders haggled over the controversial new constitution at their
summit last week, that was just that sort of language to infuriate Aslaug Haga,
a former diplomat who heads the fervently anti-EU Centre Party.

"Quite simply, we don't believe that one size fits all," she said. "Norwegians
have rejected EU membership in the past because they see it as a project by the
elites for the elites."

Whatever their views on Europe, however, Norwegians do agree that their country
should not be held up as the role model that UKIP is seeking. "Our strange land
with its scattered population is not an example for Britain or anyone else,"
said Mrs Haga. "Every country should do what is right for itself."

A study released last week indicated that if Norway joined the EU, employment in
the farming sector would virtually halve this decade, compared with a 20 per
cent fall if it remains outside. Those are the sort of figures that alarm
Norwegians convinced that membership would erode the country's traditional way
of life.

Indeed, if there is one clear divide on the EU, it is between "townies" and
those from the rural heartlands. In an Oslo bar last week, two college friends -
one from the capital, the other from a farming town in central Norway - mocked
each other as they stared across a skyline still light at midnight in the Nordic
summer.

"These city types are all the same, they just want change for the sake of
change," said the visitor. "And for you country hicks, any change is bad news,"
replied his host.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              113 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

'From today we're on a war footing' The tortuous negotiations that led to the
historic EU Constitution involved cajoling, bartering, threats and sweet-talk -
and that was the easy part. Now for the referendum campaign, report PATRICK
HENNESSY in Brussels and MELISSA KITE

BYLINE: By PATRICK HENNESSY AND MELISSA KITE

SECTION: News; Focus:Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1860 words

In the early hours of yesterday morning the pints of Guinness began to flow
freely as British and Irish diplomats toasted a historic deal. After 47 years,
the European Union had its own constitution and, more to the point for the two
teams of officials, one of the most tortuous sets of negotiations in the union's
history was finally at an end.

Both sides had different reasons to celebrate at Kitty O'Shea's pub, just a
short stroll from the imposing Justus Lipsius building in central Brussels, the
scene of the two-day summit where the landmark 300-page constitution was signed.

Tony Blair's team were relieved that they had secured an agreement that appeared
to have protected most, if not all, of Britain's cherished "red lines" - the
right to veto unpopular EU proposals in the key areas of taxation, foreign
policy, defence, immigration and social security. Equally, if not more so, they
savoured the Prime Minister's performance in a late-night news conference, in
which he in effect claimed a knockout victory over Jacques Chirac, the French
president - who 24 hours earlier had delivered a characteristically intemperate
attack on Britain's efforts to rein back the drive towards greater European
integration.

The Irish were celebrating the end of an extraordinary diplomatic drive led by
their prime minister, Bertie Ahern, who for the past six months has held the
EU's rotating presidency. For months he had cajoled, bartered, threatened and
sweet-talked his way round the capitals of Europe, tackling rows over everything
from voting rights in the new-look 25-member union to whether God should be
mentioned in the constitutional treaty (He isn't).

But, as the diplomats and political aides - very familiar to each other from the
no less exhausting sessions surrounding the Good Friday Agreement - exchanged
banter and gossip, the British knew they had much more reason to be grateful to
the Irish than vice-versa. Mr Ahern had connived in a classic "ambush" on the
pro-federalist French and Germans when the Irish presidency suddenly produced,
on Wednesday, a new draft treaty that seemed to meet all Britain's requirements.

The appearance of the draft, on the eve of the summit, caused consternation in
Mr Chirac's delegation. French journalists were seen waving copies and
declaring: "This is unacceptable! Tony Blair has been given everything he
wants!"

Despite the rages of Mr Chirac, which were at their fiercest at a dinner on
Thursday night when he harangued leaders who were unwilling to support his
choice for the Commission's new president, Guy Verhofstadt, British officials
sat tight, knowing they were on the brink of a deal on the constitution.

An agreement was sealed in outline at 3pm on Friday, an extraordinarily early
time for a summit that had been confidently forecast to last well into the
weekend - or else to collapse in acrimony. But nothing is ever cut and dried in
the EU, and the hours dragged on before a formal announcement was made.

A member of the British delegation claimed that Friday evening was when Mr Blair
and Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, were at their most nervous. "Every time
we thought we were there, someone had to get up and make another point," he
said. "We feared it would become unstitched. The PM and Jack spent most of the
time sitting in the little room allocated to the UK, which at least had a
balcony. They sat outside, with their feet up, eating bread rolls. The PM was
desperate to get on the plane home."

A complicating factor was Euro 2004. According to British diplomats, Silvio
Berlusconi, the football-mad Italian prime minister, would take little or no
part in proceedings until the conclusion of Italy's 1-1 draw with Sweden on
Friday night. Mr Blair could hardly complain. He had taken advantage of a break
in the summit's formal business at 6pm the previous day to sneak off to
Brussels's Renaissance Hotel, home to the British delegation, where he watched
England's 3-0 victory over Switzerland before returning to the Justus Lipsius
building to be harangued over dinner by Mr Chirac.

Eventually, at 11pm on Friday, a confident-looking Mr Blair bounded into the
UK's salle de briefing for a surprisingly upbeat news conference in which he
declared that the drive towards a federal superstate was over and that there was
now a "new Europe", largely made up of the EU's new member states from eastern
Europe, which were on the side of the UK. There was "no longer a consensus" for
the sort of integrationist policies pursued by Europe's big two for so long. It
seemed strange given that what had just been agreed was a constitution, a
document which by its very nature was designed to draw the EU closer together
and even to give the union a sense of nationhood. But Mr Blair's unspoken - and
highly provocative message - was that the days of the Franco-German axis were at
an end.

In a moment of apparent reflection, he also apologised for having ruled out a
referendum on the constitution for so long before performing a spectacular
U-turn in the spring. "I think I did get it wrong actually," he admitted.

Mr Blair, looking tired but relaxed, even found time for a joke at Mr Straw's
expense. The Foreign Secretary, challenged about the red lines, had answered at
some length about the constitution's 64 key annexes and was just getting into
his stride with a complex deconstruction of the undoubtedly crucial "paragraph
66".

"Now you've really started him off," said the Prime Minister, smirking at the
reporter who was regretting asking the question in the first place.

But the Prime Minister's performance, as well as close studies of the new
constitution, left a host of questions unanswered. When would he call the
referendum he had promised? How on earth did he expect British voters, 17 per
cent of whom had backed the anti-EU UK Independence Party in last week's
elections to the European Parliament, to support the constitution in the first
UK-wide plebiscite since 1975? Was Mr Straw's claim that "we got the lot"
strictly accurate? (To take just one example, Britain's employment laws appeared
under threat from the European Court of Justice in the new constitution, which
required courts to only show "due regard" to provisions that were supposed to
protect the primacy of British law on this issue). What had made Mr Blair change
from heading a government whose ministers had dismissed the constitution as a
mere "tidying up exercise" to being able to claim that the treaty was historic,
and "good for Britain and good for Europe"?

There was still the brooding figure of Mr Chirac and his main ally, Gerhard
Schroder, the German Chancellor, to deal with. The constitution contains a
series of articles enshrining the principle of "enhanced co-operation" by member
states who wish to push forward faster than others in certain policy areas. Some
of Mr Blair's team privately worry that France and Germany will seize on these
provisions to press forward with an array of new interventionist moves which
will be anathema to Britain.

Mr Chirac was in particularly barbed form at Thursday night's dinner, where,
over wild Irish salmon, Wicklow lamb and Chateau MacCarthy red wine, the French
president laid into every British ally in turn over their failure to support Mr
Verhofstadt to head the Commission. The issue of the presidency was, in fact, a
spectacular failure for the summit, with the drive to find a successor to Romano
Prodi kicked into touch.

At one point, Mr Chirac accused Malta - a nation whose entire population,
delegates noted, had been awarded the George Cross for its courage in the Second
World War - of "moral cowardice". There were audible gasps around the table. It
was, British diplomats smugly observed, the eve of Waterloo Day.

On Friday morning, Mr Blair authorised Downing Street to hit back with a barbed
briefing, attacking - again without naming - France and Germany for their
bullying tactics. "What we all now have to accept is that we are operating in a

Europe of 25 - not of six, or two, or one," the Prime Minister's official
spokesman said. Mr Schroder heard the comments within minutes of the briefing
and was "spitting blood", according to his officials.

Late on Friday, Mr Blair's official spokesman went still further with the
startling claim that Mr Chirac's blustering had played into Britain's hands. "In
the strange way in which we operate," he declared, "it helped because we needed
to demonstrate there was a new Europe." By this, he meant that the Franco-German
axis had finally overplayed its hand and miscalculated the new dynamics of a
25-member EU.

Back in London, the fledgling "no" campaign was already gearing itself up for a
long war of attrition in the months leading to referendum. Its leaders said
that, even if the vote itself was delayed until 2006, they would begin their
campaign to "blacken the name" of the constitution this week. Eurosceptic Tories
were quick to identify areas of the deal which, they said, amounted to a "huge
sacrifice" for Britain. John Redwood, the former Welsh Secretary, said: "We are
fully mobilised, from today onwards. We are on a war footing. When this comes to
the House of Commons we are prepared to fight it inch by inch." He added that Mr
Blair had caved in on crucial areas including criminal justice, borders and
defence.

Michael Howard, meanwhile, was still pondering his tactics. He has already
agreed to be an integral part in the "no" campaign without formally leading it.
Early indications were that he accepted - no doubt grudgingly - that prominent
figures in his party would have to share a platform with the UKIP if the "no"
campaign was to prosper. His spokesman said the Conservative leader was looking
forward to tomorrow's Commons showdown, in which he will call for an immediate
referendum, before parliamentary ratification, and challenge the Prime Minister
to "bring it on".

Leading figures on both sides of the debate spent yesterday locked in
discussions with legal experts as they picked over the document. These included
pro-European Tories such as Lord Heseltine, the former Deputy Prime Minister,
who was furious over Mr Blair's decision to call a referendum, and must now
decide whether to join the Prime Minister on the campaign trail to sell the
deal. Mr Blair's opponents seized on comments he made in his late-night news
conference in which he spoke of the "difficulty" in holding a referendum in the
second half of 2005, when Britain has the EU presidency, and predicted that he
might try to delay polling until late in 2006.

In his more reflective moments today Mr Blair will no doubt ponder just how
helpful his Thatcheresque handbagging of the French and the Germans will prove
at a time when he still needs their support for his most pressing foreign policy
problem - Iraq. He will also wonder how he will manage to win round a
Eurosceptical public to back the EU's new constitutional treaty in a referendum.
In Brussels, Mr Blair described the negotiations leading up to the deal on the
constitution as a "battle". But he knows that the real war - the referendum
campaign - has only just begun.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              114 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

All for one

BYLINE: By TIM WALKER

SECTION: News; Mandrake:Pg. 36

LENGTH: 195 words

THE ineffably vulgar Robert Kilroy-Silk has been left to bray about the UK
Independence Party's unexpected success in the European elections without so
much as a murmur of discord from Michael Howard. The wily Tory leader apparently
decided that there was little to be gained from jousting with a man who won so
many Conservative votes (and who, until recently, had so many true blue, if
matronly, hearts fluttering every weekday morning, thanks to his eponymous BBC
show).

Michael Ancram, the shadow foreign secretary, is, however, less inclined to pull
his punches with the perma-tanned chatshow host turned East Midlands MEP and
self-styled "wrecker" of the European Parliament.

"I entered the House in 1974 at the same time as Kilroy-Silk, when he was a
Labour MP," Ancram tells me. "Although I've nothing against him personally, he's
someone who is out only for himself. He left the Labour Party as soon as it
became clear he would never become prime minister, and then he jumped at the
opportunity to present his own TV programme. It's always got to be about him."

Try telling that to his comrade-in-arms Joan Collins: she thought the UKIP was
about her.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              115 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

STOTTY: BRITAIN NEEDS EU

BYLINE: RICHARD STOTT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 296 words


MENTION Europe and everything becomes confused, complicated, smothered in red
tape and accompanied by an ear-splitting scraping sound of politicians desperate
to get out from under.

Michael Howard's position is absurd. He wants to be part of Europe, but will
renegotiate the nasty bits he doesn't like. To do that, say with fishing, he
would have to have the agreement of the other 24 countries.

No chance. So what does he do then...pull out? No answer. He knows leaving is
unrealistic, but he also knows many of his supporters would love to do just
that. Tony Blair is hardly any better. He says we should be at the heart of
Europe and pulling out would be an act of "extraordinary foolishness". But he
didn't have the heart or, as some cynics see it, the extraordinary foolishness,
to make one speech during the European elections. No wonder Britain is starved
of any real debate on our economic future.

So we abrogate political responsibility and leave the field to rabid,
right-wing, red-neck propaganda. Whatever Europe's shortcomings - and there are
many - if we quit, Britain's economy would suffer to the tune of pounds
23billion a year according to the independent National Institute of Economic and
Social Research. More than half our trade is with the EU and 100,000 Britons
work there. More than three million jobs depend on exports and 750,000
businesses trade with other EU countries - tariff-free. Electricity, phones and
air tickets are all cheaper, thanks to consumer legislation.

The UK Independence Party's orange buffoon Kilroy-Silk thrives because neither
Labour nor Conservative has the guts to debate our future calmly and sensibly.

The European future may or may not be bright. But one thing is certain. It will
never be orange.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              116 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

STOTTY: YOU SAID IT, KILROY

BYLINE: RICHARD STOTT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 103 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk, he of the tangerine tan and phoney politics, says he intends
to wreck the European Parliament and expose waste and corruption.

Excellent. He can start by exposing the record of three MPs who trousered a
pounds 65,000 annual salary - plus allowances that can double that - yet ranked
in the bottom third of attendances and in the last Parliament managed just one
question between them in five years.

It shouldn't be difficult. The wasteful, cynical politicians who cost the EU
taxpayers just under pounds 1million for one question are from... you've got
it...the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              117 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

SECRET MODEL SON OF KILROY;
 TOP AGENCY SNAPS UP HANDSOME DANNY, 19

BYLINE: EUAN STRETCH

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 309 words

HIGHLIGHT: MODEL LOOKS: Danny (left) and Kilroy-Silk, aged 28; GOOD BROODING:
Danny in a shot from his portfolio


HE has the same square jaw and rugged good looks as his famous father, and it's
easy to see why strapping 19-year-old Danny Beauchamp has been snapped up by a
top London model agency.

But far from being proud of his son's achievements, Danny's father -
newly-elected Euro MP Robert Kilroy-Silk - has nothing to do with him.

Danny is the secret love-child born to art teacher Hilary Beauchamp in 1985
after she had an affair with married Kilroy-Silk, then a Labour MP.

Hilary, a model, spared the sacked TV presenter disgrace at the time by not
naming him as the father on Danny's birth certificate.

But he was finally exposed as the boy's dad after he refused to publicly
acknowledge his son's existence.

Kilroy-Silk, forced to quit as host of his daytime BBC talk show in January
after saying Arabs were suicide bombers, was then shamed into increasing his
pounds 200-a-month child maintenance payments.

Hilary says that Kilroy-Silk has never shown any interest in Danny, who is due
to star in fashion shows in both Paris and Milan this summer.

"He has responded negatively to Danny's requests to establish some relationship
with him," she said.

Danny last week refused to say anything about his father who has just been
elected as a UK Independence Party's MEP for the East Midlands.

He said he was not interested in making money "on the back of my father".

Hilary lives in a modest housing association flat in North London while
Kilroy-Silk, 62, enjoys a lavish lifestyle funded by his controversial newspaper
and TV career.

He lives in a pounds 1.5million house in Buckinghamshire and spends his summers
on his pounds 2million estate on the Costa del Sol.

The politician has been married for 40 years to wife Jan with whom he has two
children - Dominic, 36, and Natasha, 33.

e.stretch@sundaymirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              118 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 19, 2004

HOW ABOUT OUR FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS, TONY?

BYLINE: PAUL EASTHAM

SECTION: ED_2ND_04; Pg. 1; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1202 words


TONY BLAIR last night agreed to the EU constitution in defiance of massive
opposition from British voters.

The Prime Minister gambled his political life in a deal which will deliver
another hammer blow to UK sovereignty. After two days of wrangling and private
deals hatched in smoke-filled rooms at the Brussels summit, he accepted the
first ever constitution for the EU, bringing a single superstate another step
closer. One of its most controversial components is a Charter of Fundamental
Rights which creates a right to strike, undermining British labour laws and
allowing the Army and police to strike for the first time.

The charter also creates rights to asylum, social security, housing assistance
and health care, all as the European Court chooses to define.

The British electorate made crystal clear its opposition to the idea of ceding
further powers to Brussels in the Euro elections last week, when the avidly
anti-European UK Independence Party made remarkable progress.

It scooped 18 per cent of the vote, pushing the Liberal Democrats into fourth
place and inching to within five points of Labour.

The constitution must now be put before all 25 national parliaments to be voted
on.

Theoretically, every single country must secure parliamentary approval before it
can be implemented.

A number of countries, including Britain, will also hold referendums to put the
issue to the electorate.

The British referendum, the date of which is still to be fixed, will present Mr
Blair with a monumental struggle to persuade voters that the constitution is a
good idea. Defeat would almost certainly force his resignation.

Leaders toasted the completion of their negotiations with champagne late last
night.

While the detail of what concessions had been won remained unclear, Mr Blair
insisted he had achieved everything he wanted.

'I defy anyone to look at what we said and look at what we've got and say it's
not exactly what we promised,' he said.

His so-called 'red lines' national vetoes on tax, social security, foreign
policy and defence remained in place, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights was
'expressed specifically in such a way' that domestic industrial relations law
could not be altered by the European Court, he said.

The Premier had demanded a guarantee that the charter would not confer new legal
rights in national courts, particularly over the right to strike. An annexe to
the charter says it cannot be used as a basis for altering national law.

But many lawyers argue that unless there is a specific reference to that point
in the constitution, the European Court could override the annexe. He hailed the
deal as 'a success for Britain and a success for Europe' and brushed aside
charges that he had taken part in a massive act of centralisation. The concept
of a superstate had 'gone as an idea', he said.

'A new Europe has taken shape.

A Europe in which Britain can build alliances and feel at home.

A Europe in which there's no one dominant view but in which there's a Europe of
flexibility and diverse progress.' He said the ten new countries who joined the
EU on May 1 had transformed the atmosphere and massively diluted the future
power of Paris and Berlin. 'You can feel the difference with these new countries
coming in and sitting around the table and they are our allies,' he said.

Furious exchanges throughout the two days had exposed the split between 'old
Europe', dominated by France and Germany, and 'new Europe', including Britain
and the ten new states.

Mr Blair launched a Margaret Thatcher- style onslaught on France and Germany for
trying to bully the smaller states.

He said it was 'unfortunate' that French president Jacques Chirac and German
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder had attacked Britain's position before they even
knew what it was. The smaller countries also began accusing Mr Chirac of
bullying tactics, claiming they had been warned of retribution if they did not
back France.

One senior insider said: 'Jacques is going around behaving like a monarch among
prime ministers.' Diplomats saw Mr Blair's toughening stance as a sign that he
believes the days of Franco-German dominance are over and he regards himself as
the leader of a 'new Europe' bloc.

The UK Independence Party accused Mr Blair of 'breathtaking arrogance and
disregard for the will of the British people' in agreeing-to the constitution.
'Voters sent Mr Blair a clear message only eight days ago,' said leader Roger
Knapman. 'His decision to ignore the democratic will of the nation is one which
voters will not soon forget.' Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram said the
constitution would be 'bad for Britain and bad for Europe'.

'The majority of British people and business oppose it,' he said.

'Tony Blair hasn't listened to them. He is deaf to their concerns.

His red lines are red herrings.' Comment Page 18

HOW THE CONSTITUTION WILL CHANGE OUR LIVES

THE constitution will leave no corner of British life untouched as it takes a
massive stride towards a European superstate. The key changes are:

FOREIGN POLICY Creates an EU foreign minister, complete with diplomatic corps
Britain could have to surrender seat on UN Security Council to the new minister
We must 'actively and unreservedly' support a common EU foreign policy

DEFENCE Threatens Nato by creating a common EU defence policy.

CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND ASYLUM New European Public Prosecutor can haul people for
trial before UK courts Gives EU right to set minimum standards in defining
offences and setting sentences Creates common asylum and immigration policy
ECONOMY AND EMPLOYMENT EU can 'ensure co-ordination of economic and employment
policies', undermining our flexible labour market SOVEREIGNTY States explicitly
that EU law has primacy over British law Sees Britain surrender more than 20
vetoes

CHARTER OF FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS Gives workers a right to strike. European Court of
Justice says this changes our labour laws.

Creates a right to asylum

I was wrong, says PM

MR BLAIR'S capitulation over whether British voters should be allowed a
referendum on the constitution was complete last night.

In the early days of negotiations on the treaty the idea was dismissed with
scorn, with Ministers arguing it did not change our relationship with Brussels.

Then last June the Daily Mail staged its own national vote, asking readers if
they felt a referendum was justified. The answer was resounding, with 90 per
cent of 1.7million respondents declaring they wanted to have a say on the
constitution.

Soon afterwards Mr Blair backed down and agreed to put the issue to the country.

In Brussels last night he backtracked even further and admitted he was wrong not
to have agreed to a referendum from the start.

'Yes, it probably was a mistake if I could say so very honestly to you,' he
said. 'I think that in the end a decision of this magnitude is probably better
put to the people.' But he said he felt 'very comfortable' at the prospect of
having the debate with the public and said his chances of winning 'depends
whether people listen to what is actually in the treaty'.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HISTORIC: TONY BLAIR ON TV LAST NIGHT AS THE AGREEMENT WAS ANNOUNCED

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              119 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 19, 2004

THE LOVE OF a father

BYLINE: MAX HASTINGS

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 18; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1878 words



THE other night we had dinner with a 60-year-old friend who is a successful
businessman. His father is a famous national figure. His wife said at dinner (I
have changed the name): 'Peter has been waiting 60 years for Dad to give him a
word of praise, and now he knows it ain't going to happen.' If there is one
thing I would never have anticipated about middle age, it is that we go on
caring so much what our parents think. Many of us pass through life with our
tongues hanging out for a kind word from the old man - and from his ghost when
he is gone.

Having never won as much as a wooden spoon at school, I received a letter the
other day from somebody telling me that I was being given a prize for something.
I felt a stab of regret that my father is no longer alive. It would have given
him such pleasure.

Likewise, whenever I catch a salmon or publish a book, I always think of father
up there somewhere, and hope that he is watching.

However much we want to impress our contemporaries by our commercial triumphs/
marketing skills/ gardening prowess/ wizardry on the tennis court (or whatever
else each of us flatters himself or herself about), the audience we care most
about are Mum and Dad, dead or alive.

This is the case, irrespective of whether we get along with them while they are
around. Oscar Wilde said that we start by loving our parents, then we judge
them, but we never forgive them.

I disagree with the last bit.

Most of us forgive our parents pretty quick once we get children of our own and
discover just how difficult this parenting lark is.

I would give my own father three out of ten for parenting skills, 11 out of 10
for role modelling. From my earliest days, he seemed an impossibly glamorous
figure, forever crossing African deserts, riding the Cresta Run, appearing on
television.

HE, TOO, was a journalist - Macdonald Hastings - who became famous in his day:
first as a war correspondent, then to a generation of children in the 1950s as
Eagle Special Investigator for a boys' magazine, finally to TV viewers as a
presenter of countryside programmes.

When I was three days old, he wrote a long letter which he gave to me when I was
21. It lies on my desk now. He declared his confidence that I, too, would be a
writer, and said that he and my mother were choosing my name with an eye to
future newspaper bylines.

On that last day of 1945, he wrote about the world as it seemed at the time,
overshadowed by the atomic bomb and Britain's bankruptcy.

'In my lifetime,' said father, 'this country, from being one of the richest
countries in the world, has become one of the poorest - we're going to have an
anxious economy which will extend, I'm afraid, right into your own grownup
life.' He was right about that, for sure, though the lives of our generation
have proved much more prosperous and less alarming than his generation feared.

In my childhood, father seemed more conspicuous by his absences than by his
presence - though in due course my own children said the same about me.

He returned from faraway places with exciting presents: Bedouin robes from
Jordan, a tom-tom from Africa, real cowboy boots and spurs from the Wild West.
Occasionally he would take me to television studios or on film locations, to
meet stars or lunch at wildly expensive restaurants.

Father selected a vision of an appropriate lifestyle for himself: handmade
shoes, suits and shotguns, adult toys on demand.

He set about pursuing this heedless of his bank balance.

School fees were paid only because my mother, another journalist, was a high
earner and more prudent with it. I formed an erroneous impression that father's
financial insouciance was stylish, and later had to learn the hard way that it
was dotty.

By my teens, I understood that for all Father's gifts and charm, he could
politely be described as eccentric. His opinions, from a passionate enthusiasm
for Eden's Suez invasion in 1956 to a belief that women with fat legs made the
best wives, were deemed unusual even by his contemporaries.

In 1960, at the age of 50, he decided to demonstrate that rural skills would
enable him to survive alone on a desert island with only a gun, a fishing line
and a machete.

THIS confidence proved misplaced. In his first days on an atoll in the Indian
Ocean, he almost severed a finger cutting palm trees to build a hut with the
aforesaid machete. His dog, Friday, quickly scoffed all the wild chicken's eggs,
the only significant protein available.

Lacking vitamin C, he (Father, not Friday, who thrived) developed scurvy, sores
and starvation. When a schooner eventually rescued him after five weeks, he came
home a stretcher case.

Unabashed, he announced that he had learned all manner of useful lessons for
next time, such as the importance of taking a case of gin.

Father only became seriously interested in me when it seemed plausible that I
might become a writer. He often spoke to me, as a bored teenager, about 'the
challenge of a blank sheet of paper' - a phrase that meant nothing then but
means a huge amount today.

A passionate Englishman, he filled me with a sense of the romance of belonging
to the nation which produced Wellington and Shakespeare, Marlborough and Jane
Austen.

He loved the countryside and hated socialists. He used to rehearse with relish a
local farmer's observation about Tony Benn that 'If I had a dog with eyes like
that, I'd shoot it!' Had Father been around last week, I fear that he would have
voted for the UK Independence Party. He was dismayed by my own liberal brand of
Conservatism.

Once, at his house in the country, when I was about 20, a violently reactionary
local couple came to lunch. I argued with them.

When they left, Father said: 'I suppose you think you've done well, that those
people have gone home thinking what a clever young man Max Hastings is.

They haven't. They've gone home thinking what an intolerable boor you are, and
they're right.

'Don't waste your intelligence on putting little people down. If you want a
fight, pick enemies your own size. They'll cut you down quick enough.' All this
was, of course, absolutely right.

Most of us remember both the wise and foolish things our parents say. During my
childhood, I pursued an almost unbroken career of delinquency. There's another
thing Oscar Wilde was wrong about: he claimed that it is hard to be naughty in
the country.

On the contrary, I found much more scope for mischief in wide open spaces than
in London.

Father inquired in exasperation why all my activities required the use of a
hammer.

In those post-war years, firearms at home were commonplace yet led to
surprisingly little violent crime. Most people had formed the habit of assuming
that guns were only to be used upon pheasants and Germans.

Father had brought back from Germany an impressive collection of weaponry, which
gave me hours of unauthorised happiness at the age of ten or 11.

My sister still possesses the garden seat into which I emptied a Luger automatic
pistol one sunny afternoon, much to my own gratification and the terror of the
neighbours.

The village was inclined to share my mother's view: that I was subject to
inadequate paternal supervision. With hindsight, they may have been right.

Yet my own daughter observes: 'Life's what you're used to, Daddy.' Most of us
leave the nest under the impression that the way our parents do things is the
way everybody does.

EXPERIENCE of my father persuaded me that all right-thinking Englishmen should
have overdrafts, guns, handmade shoes, disdain for the French who are so
pathetic on battlefields, a respectable amount of war experience and a taste for
camping in wildernesses under the stars.

Oh yes, and in my family one was also expected to write. This was tough on
anybody who didn't.

Father, like most fathers, was pompous about his children's crimes (though my
hapless younger sister was usually a mere bystander or victim of mine).

Fortunately, my aunt regaled us with tales of Father's juvenile history, which
set my own crimes in perspective.

Likewise, my grandfather had published an account of his own Victorian
upbringing, entitled Memoirs Of A Child. This included vivid accounts of causing
explosions with gunpowder in the back garden of the family's London house. I
offered these as evidence in mitigation, when on trial for such offences myself.

While I was in awe of Father's literary gifts and courage, I was never afraid of
him. This was partly because he was endearingly incompetent in practical
matters, even when not on a desert island.

The car was routinely allowed to run out of petrol. He possessed a passion for
gadgets rivalling that of Mr Toad, and none of them worked. Like many of his
generation, he drank far too much. I am hardly teetotal, but his memory has
given me a lifelong distaste for gin.

When I began to write, Father's celebrity was a mixed blessing, as he predicted
from my infancy that it would be. A severe critic of some of my early
journalistic activities, he wrote a three-page letter after my first television
film appeared, telling me frankly that I had been awful: 'You ranted. You talked
as if you were addressing a political audience.

'Television is the most intimate of all mediums. You must never forget that you
are talking not to millions, but to a weary Mrs Jones by her fireside in
Surbiton.

You must woo her very skilfully indeed to persuade her to be interested in
Vietnam.

'Worst of all, you talked to the camera wearing sunglasses.' This was hurtful to
me, and absolutely true. Who, when our parents are dead, will again offer such
criticism born of love? Even our husbands and wives are inhibited.

Although sometimes I quarrelled bitterly with my father, I never doubted that he
was on my side. This is surely what we want most from parents.

When I came home from the Falklands War in June 1982, I found Father very ill.
Indeed, unbeknown to me, he had nearly died.

His sitting room was littered with old newspapers carrying my despatches.

'I'm glad I didn't go while you were away,' he said.

'But now I'm happy to do so, because I've seen you do this, and I think you can
make it.' The memory of that moment makes the tears come back, because it meant
so much to me.

He died a few months later. I felt no sorrow for him. He had done everything he
wanted to, and was bored and ill.

MY REGRETS were selfish ones. From my earliest years, Father alone had made
absurdly extravagant prophecies of success for me, while everybody else thought
it most plausible that I should end up in jail. There was no one else whose
praise I valued so much, nor who was so sure to provide it. Now, he was gone.

No book on parenting would cite Father's example. He was feckless, wayward,
selfish, lacked judgment, wasted many of his gifts and took little trouble with
his children until they were old enough to play his games. My mother had to do
most of the work and pay most of the bills, and in my childhood I gave her too
little credit for this.

Yet every day remains Fathers' Day for some of us, because we see all our own
experiences in the mirror of theirs.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FOREVER IN HIS DEBT: THE YOUNG MAX HASTINGS WITH HIS FAMOUS FATHER
MACDONALD

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              120 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 19, 2004

THE LORD vs THE loaded lady

BYLINE: HELEN WEATHERS

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 40; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1984 words



THE lavish Pounds 50,000 black tie party to celebrate their marriage was
certainly a night to remember - if not for the intended reasons.

Champagne flowed liberally all evening, a sumptuous meal was laid on for 250
guests, followed by dancing in marquees to a live band.

Tanned from their French honeymoon, Viscount Exmouth and his new wife, wealthy
widow Sarah Edgar, glowed with apparent happiness as they mingled with their
friends and family at the bride's splendid Pounds 750,000 country home
overlooking the picturesque Somerset village of Dulverton.

No matter that the groom's society friends considered the bride's guests a
little nouveau riche in their shiny-new double-breasted dinner jackets and gold
jewellery; and no matter that the bride's guests thought the groom's uppercrust
friends a touch superior with their fashionably well-worn tuxedos.

All agreed it was rather a good match. Not only did the couple seem genuinely in
love, but, in time-honoured tradition, both sides were bringing something
valuable to the marriage.

He - the illustrious descendant of the 19thcentury naval hero Sir Edward Pellew
- brought with him a coveted aristocratic title. And she brought with her 'the
boodle' - in other words, a multimillion-pound inheritance from her late
husband, cheap jewellery magnate Anthony Edgar, who made his fortune when he
sold his stake in H. Samuel to Gerald Ratner in 1986.

But no sooner had the party got underway than it all started to go horribly
awry. A hush descended as a friend of the bride stood to toast the happy couple
- and proceeded to pay fulsome tribute to Sarah's late husband.

'It was a terrible display of bad manners and everyone felt embarrassed for Paul
Exmouth,' one guest says.

'This was his wedding party, and here was everyone toasting Sarah's previous
husband. It prompted quite a bit of bottom-shuffling on seats.

The night never really recovered.' Worse, however, was to come. That night,
after most of the guests had departed, Viscount Exmouth and his new wife had
their first serious tiff.

'Sarah had invited her gay hairdresser and his boyfriend from London to stay as
house guests, and she was still partying with them well into the small hours.

'The Exmouths were hosting a lunch party for the locals of Dulverton the next
day, and Paul thought it wise that they should go to bed. Sarah did not like him
telling her what to do and they had words,' says a close friend of the
63-year-old aristocrat.

The following day, there was a further humiliating 'gaffe' at the celebration
lunch. During the toast to the happy couple, by another of Sarah's friends,
guests were entreated to raise their glasses to Lady Exmouth and her husband
'Alan'.

'Paul felt terribly humiliated because Alan was the name of her gardener,'
continues the friend. 'He thought it was a deliberate attempt to embarrass him.
He was extremely hurt.' Not as hurt as the following morning, when Sarah decided
she needed 'space' and effectively gave Viscount Exmouth his marching orders -
dispatching him to the small Devon cottage which had been his home before his
marriage.

Less than 24 hours after the last champagne corks had popped, the marriage was
over. Two weeks later, a solicitor's letter was hand-delivered - driven from
London in a Mercedes - informing Viscount Exmouth that his wife was starting
divorce proceedings.

They have not spoken since.

HOWEVER, that was not the end of the matter. Today - two years after that lavish
June party - the couple are locked in an embarrassing High Court battle over the
divorce settlement for a marriage which lasted less than three months.

There are, as with all rather acrimonious break-ups, dark mutterings emanating
from both sides.

Her friends are said to be furious over his legal moves to win a generous
financial settlement from her, while his friends are fuming that she is the one
who benefited most from the brief marriage - emerging with the title Lady
Exmouth, which she will still be entitled to use after the divorce.

Both Viscount and Lady Exmouth are naturally eager to defend themselves.

Last week, Paul Exmouth said of his court action: 'What do you consider
important? Her money or my title? You can judge for yourself.' Clearly, he
thinks his title is worth quite something.

Sarah, 61, who has told friends her husband was originally asking for a divorce
settlement of Pounds 250,000 but is now prepared to settle for Pounds 25,000,
retorted: 'I have no interest in titles. I certainly didn't marry him for his.'
Indeed, as she wafted round the royal enclosure at Ascot last week, her name tag
read plain Sarah Edgar.

Last night, one of her closest friends told the Mail: 'It's absolute rubbish to
even suggest that she married him for his title. She does not use the title Lady
Exmouth now and has no desire to. She calls herself Sarah Edgar and is more than
happy to do so.

'She ended the marriage because, after their wedding, he changed his spots so to
speak. He became rather bad-tempered, to say the least, and was not the man she
thought he was.' Close friends of the thrice-married Viscount remain unconvinced
by such protestations and are furious over what they see as crude attempts to
stain his 'exemplary' character. They claim that Sarah Edgar was the one who
changed her spots the minute she had the ring on her finger, 'Paul has been
absolutely minced by this whole business,' says a friend. 'He was heartbroken
when she told him to leave, and even now, after all she's done, he still says:
"I miss Sarah." He genuinely cared for her.

'To suggest he is some kind of golddigger is outrageous. He is a thoroughly
decent and honourable man.

'The very day she said "I do", she had the name on her cheque book and credit
card changed to Lady Exmouth. Don't you think it strange that within a few days
of their party to celebrate their marriage, the whole thing was over because of
a silly row, without so much as a discussion about it?

SHE may have money, but without Paul she would never have gained entry to the
social circles she now enjoys. It was a big mistake marrying her. She came out
of it with a title - while he came out of it with nothing but humiliation and a
broken heart.' Whichever version you choose to believe, there can be no doubt
that class - with its differing expectations - played an undoubted role in their
break-up. Not that either of them considered it a problem when they were
introduced to each other at a dinner party in January 2001.

Sarah, the attractive and vivacious daughter of post-war fashion model Barbara
Goalen, was searching for someone to put the spark back into her life following
the death of her husband nine years ago Viscount Exmouth was similarly lonely
after the collapse of his second marriage to doctor's daughter Rosemary after 25
years.

Despite his illustrious heritage, Viscount Exmouth - like so many modern-day
aristocrats - was far from rich when they met, with no estate to speak of.

His sole income came from the money tourists pay to visit the scenic Canonteign
Falls near Chudleigh in Devon, which he inherited. While the land is a valuable
asset, it did not compare with Sarah Edgar's millions.

'Mutual friends thought they might make a good match, what with her money and
his aristocratic connections,' reveals a friend. 'But they surprised everyone by
genuinely hitting it off together.

'In the beginning, they were very happy and had a lot of fun, travelling abroad
and throwing dinner parties.

Paul made no secret of his financial situation, and Sarah is known to be very
hospitable and generous.

'But that is not what attracted Paul to her - it was her sense of fun. In many
ways, he is very unworldly. He is a typical aristocrat.

'He is the kind of person who would happily eat baked beans on toast for a year
and wear a ski suit at home in winter in order to hang onto a stately home he
could not afford to heat, let alone maintain.

'He is a man who is very proud of his heritage and of British ancestral
traditions. With Paul, Sarah suddenly gained entry to a social sphere that no
amount of money can buy.' In 1999, Viscount Exmouth was one of 555 hereditary
peers axed from the House of Lords. In the 2001 General Election, he stood as
the UK Independence Party candidate in Teignbridge, Devon.

Clearly, both Viscount Exmouth and his friends considered him the better
'catch', and according to his circle, it was Sarah who was keen to formalise the
relationship.

'Sarah's mother was a famous model and acclaimed beauty in the 1950s, and I
think it was a feather in Sarah's cap to be able to visit her mother and say:
"I'm going to be the new Lady Exmouth," ' says a friend of the groom.

'Paul had just come out of a 25-year marriage and was in no rush to get married
again. But she would say: "Darling, everyone thinks of us as a couple anyway" -
so he thought it the honourable thing to do.

'Before the wedding, she would say: "This is our home, our money."

But after the wedding it was suddenly "I, me, mine".' Some people might consider
Sarah Edgar's supposed attitude towards her estimated Pounds 12 million fortune
perfectly reasonable: it was, after all, her money not his.

But it seems both Viscount Exmouth and his aristocratic friends considered it
'bad form' in the extreme.

After their wedding at Chelsea Register Office on March 20, 2002, it appears
relations between the pair soured almost immediately, and it became clear - to
Viscount Exmouth at least - that his new bride was rather too modern for his
tastes.

'When they went out to dinner in London, Sarah would be waving her credit card
about when the bill came, which Paul found extremely unseemly,' says a friend.
'He is very old school, and it might have been more appropriate if a joint
account had been set up, pooling their money.

'Paul felt that she was deliberately putting him his place because she was the
one with the greater wealth. She was always talking about her house and her
money. She didn't even give him a key to her London apartment.

'When they came back from their honeymoon in the South of France, she'd invited
her hairdresser and his boyfriend to stay without even telling Paul.

He felt like a stranger in the marital home.' The new Lady Exmouth, it would
appear, was equally upset to have a husband less than happy with her way of
life. As it was, Viscount Exmouth would spend less than a month in the marital
home in Dulverton before the party bust-up which prompted his rapid exit.

Two weeks after she told him to leave, she asked him to come back for lunch
because all the locals were starting to gossip. So he did - and then returned to
his own small cottage in Devon.

GALLANTLY, Paul tried to stem the rumours at the time by saying publicly: 'My
wife is the love of my life. I could not have made a better choice. All
newlyweds - especially ones who marry late in life - go through difficult
moments. It is nothing more than that.

'Everyone who says our marriage is in trouble will, I hope, be proved
humiliatingly wrong.' But within days, the solicitor's letter arrived informing
him that Sarah was instigating divorce proceedings on the basis of his
unreasonable behaviour.

'Paul was devastated,' says a close friend. 'The letter told him he must make no
contact with her or visit her homes. She has since claimed she was frightened of
him, following their row, and felt threatened, which is utter rot.

'If she felt frightened, why did she invite him for lunch to stop the locals
gossiping?

'Sarah Edgar may be able to call herself a Lady now - but her behaviour over
this has been anything but ladylike.' Fabulously wealthy, attractive,
independent and now titled, but to the manor born? In her exhusband's eyes at
least: clearly not.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHORT-LIVED: VISCOUNT EXMOUTH AND SARAH EDGAR ON THEIR WEDDING DAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              121 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

Going out Mean girls, dancing chickens and a double-barrelled publican

BYLINE: By Classical Geoffrey Norris Comedy Dominic Cavendish Dance Ismene Brown
Exhibitions Richard Dorment Film David Gritten, Sukhdev Sandhu, Tim Robey Folk
Colin Randall Jazz Martin Gayford Opera Rupert Christiansen Pop David Cheal
Theatre Charles Spencer

SECTION: Arts Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2242 words

FILM

The choice

Mean Girls (12A)

The impressive Lindsay Lohan stars as a teenage daughter of zoologists, educated
at home in Africa all her life, but now thrown into a different jungle -
American high school. She learns about the different species who prowl around
the lunch hall, succumbs to the temptations of cliquish nastiness, and somehow
survives. Tina Fey has written a script that's more witty and sophisticated than
it needs to be. Genuinely funny.

Also recommended

The Cooler (15)

Nobody does born losers as well as William H Macy, here playing a crippled
casino employee who goes round tables infecting on-a-roll punters with his bad
luck. He wants to pack in his job, but his boss (Alec Baldwin) uses unfair and
foul means to try to stop him. All the actors are top-rate in this strange but
very compelling film that moves between comedy, violence and off-kilter romance.

Jersey Girl (12A)

Kevin Smith ditches his trademark foulmouth humour for a sweet family comedy.
Ben Affleck plays a Manhattan city slicker raising his daughter alone, Liv
Tyler's the love interest, and Will Smith has a cute cameo.

Japanese Story (15)

An Australian geologist (Toni Collette) and a Kyoto businessman (Gotaro
Tsunashima) get stranded in the Outback, leaving them stuck with the worst
company they could possibly ask for: each other. Collette is wonderful, in a
picture whose ragged charm deepens into sincerity: it's risky, perceptive and
finally shattering.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (PG)

Mexican director Alfonso Cuaron gets far better performances out of the young
cast than Chris Columbus managed and gives the movie a shadowy visual texture.
On returning to Hogwarts, it's business as usual, though, with another
shapeshifting mystery that's less dark than Potterphiles would like to believe.

THEATRE

The choice

Shining City

The Irish dramatist Conor McPherson, best known for The Weir, returns sober from
the drink that almost killed him with this stunning drama about guilt and
recovery. A Dubliner in his fifties is convinced he has seen the ghost of his
wife, who died in horrible circumstances, and, deeply distraught, he goes to see
a therapist who is harbouring secrets of his own. The play is ingenious,
sometimes hilarious and also deeply moving, and it delivers a twist at the end
that raises the hairs on the back of the neck. Stanley Townsend gives a
magnificent performance as the grieving widower, and McPherson directs his own
outstanding play with superb assurance. How good it is to have him back. Royal
Court Theatre, London SW1 (020

7565 5000).

Also recommended

A Midsummer

Night's Dream

The perennial park favourite returns in a bright new staging by Ian Talbot that
boasts spooky fairies, sparky lovers and a wonderfully endearing performance
from Russ Abbot showing us his Bottom for the first time. The production casts a
rare spell of enchantment as dusk deepens in this al-fresco setting. The Dream
is playing in rep with Alan Strachan's glowing and enjoyably old-fashioned
production of Henry IV. Open Air Theatre, Regent's Park, London NW1 (08700
601811)

Damages

In the wake of Piers Morgan's departure from the Mirror comes this sparky new
play about senior staff on a red-top paper agonising about whether to run a
photo that might be a set-up. The tense action is played in real time as
deadline approaches, and Steve Thompson's gripping drama combines sudden twists
with a vivid sense of tabloid newspapers' love-hate relationship with celebrity
culture. Bush Theatre, London W12 (020 7610 4224).

The False Servant

This icy-hearted comedy by Marivaux about love, treachery and disguise receives
a superb production from Jonathan Kent, with Charlotte Rampling heading an
outstanding cast. Paul Brown contributes another of his stunning designs, with
silver mirrors reflecting the characters' vanity and delusions. National's
Cottesloe Theatre, London SE1 (020 452 3000).

EXHIBITIONS

The choice

Nathan Coley

The Lamp of Sacrifice is an ambitious new installation by this consistently
interesting young artist. The work consists of 286 four-foot-high cardboard
models, each an exact replica of one of the places of worship listed in
Edinburgh's Yellow Pages. A stunning visual spectacle in itself, the
installation makes visible and concrete the central role that religion plays in
contemporary life - but also allows us to see, as no written description could,
how the architecture of a building reflects the beliefs of those who worship in
it. Fruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh (0131 225 2383), until July 18.

Also recommended

Matisse to Freud:

A Critic's Choice

The incomparable film critic Alexander Walker, who died last year, bequeathed
more than 200 modern prints and drawings to the British Museum, including work
by Jasper Johns, Lucian Freud, Howard Hodgkin, Matisse and Picasso. British
Museum, London WC1 (020 7323 8000), until Jan 9.

With Hidden Noise: Sculpture, Video and Ventriloquism

A show that challenges our assumption that sculpture is a silent art form, with
artists ranging from Marcel Duchamp to Tony Oursler. Henry Moore Institute,
Leeds (0113 246 7467), until Aug 8.

Last chance

We are the People: Postcards from the Collection of Tom Phillips

Enchanting scenes of picnics and family outings, boxing matches and holidays by
the sea made piquant by a faint undertow of melancholy. National Portrait
Gallery, London WC2 (020 7312 2463), until June 20.

CLASSICAL

The choice

Oxford Chamber

Music Festival

Cohesion and contrast have coalesced for this year's week of chamber music in
Oxford. Russia is a theme running through the concerts, but the works range
widely from Glinka to Gubaidulina, Bach to Borodin and Britten, Prokofiev to
Piazzolla, Rubinstein to Rimsky-Korsakov and Rachmaninov. Choice artists have
been gathered together for what, from past experience, should be a festival of
beguiling informality and first-rate music-making. Box office: 0870 750 0659.
From Fri to July 2.

Also recommended

Ancient Voices -

New Voices

The Karol Szymanowski Quartet gives the premiere of Deidre Gribbin's What the
Whaleship Saw, launching a series setting new British music alongside Haydn.
Later, the ensemble Conchord plays George Crumb's Vox Balaenae (Voice of the
Whale) in a companion series combining Crumb with Bach and new American music.
LSO St Luke's, London EC1 (0845 120 7502), Mon.

Alfred Brendel

Brendel's legendary insights are applied to a programme of Austro-German piano
classics, including sonatas by Mozart, pieces by Schubert and Beethoven's E
major Sonata Op 109. Barbican Hall, London EC2 (0845 120 7550), Tues.

Colin Currie

The brilliant young percussionist performs music by Louis Andriessen, Dai
Fujikura, Robert Maggio, Steve Mackey and David Lang as part of the Spitalfields
Festival. Shoreditch Church, London E1 (020 7377 1362), Wed.

Book now

King's Lynn Festival

Booking opens on Monday for this year's festival, with a good classical strand.
Box office: 01553 764864. From July 18 to 31.

OPERA

The choice

Eight Little Greats

A unique achievement by Opera North-productions of eight one-act operas, staged
by two directors, three conductors and an ensemble cast, presented in
pick-and-mix format. Inevitably, there are a couple of duds (avoid Rossini's
Love's Luggage Lost and Rachmaninov's dreary Francesca da Rimini), but
Pagliacci, Djamileh, Il tabarro and La Vida Breve are all superb, with wonderful
performances by Mary Plazas, Majella Cullagh, Paul Nilon and Mark Stone.
Sadler's Wells, London EC1 (0870 737 7737), Tues-Sat.

Also recommended

Ariadne auf Naxos

Strauss's opera-within-an-opera, in Christof Loy's sumptuous staging, conducted
by Sir Colin Davis. Royal Opera House, London WC2 (020 7304 4000), Tues.

A Midsummer

Night's Dream

Robin Blaze and Sarah Tynan make their debuts as Oberon and Titania in ENO's
revival of Robert Carsen's clever and sexy production. London Coliseum, WC2 (020
7632 8300), Wed, Fri.

La fanciulla del West

One of Puccini's most glorious and underrated scores is given a rare but welcome
London production. Opera Holland Park, London W11 (0845 230 9769), tonight, Tues
and Thurs.

Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg

Franz Welser-Most conducts the Zurich Opera in a concert performance of Wagner's
wonderful comedy. Festival Hall, London SE1 (0870 382 8000), Mon.

Book now

Buxton Festival

The much-improved event with new productions of Handel's Hercules and Rossini's
Il Turco in Italia, as well as a strong programme of fringe events. Box office:
0845 1272190. From July 9 to 25.

DANCE

The choice

Birmingham Royal Ballet

Was a more delectably amorous or more deliciously inventive classical
story-ballet created in the 20th century than Ashton's La Fille mal gardee? I
don't think so. The title means "badly minded girl", referring to naughty Lise
and her outwitting of her mother's plans to keep her away from the man she
loves. With dancing chickens, Widow Simone's famous clog dance, a ravishing love
pas de deux and perfect comedy, Fille is a summer sparkler. Hippodrome,
Birmingham (0870 730 1234), today; Lowry, Salford (0870 787 5790), Wed-next Sat.

Also recommended

Royal Ballet

Cranko's moving classical romance Onegin closes the season. Pallid
Tapper/Makhateli cast is enlivened by sparky Marianela Nunez as Tatiana's sister
(Thurs); Alina Cojocaru and Johan Kobborg are superb leads (Fri). Royal Opera
House, London WC2 (020 7304 4000), until June 29.

George Piper Dances

A strong bill of modern ballet by top choreographers, danced by powerfully
charismatic performers. Highly commended. Queen's Theatre, Barnstaple (01271
324242), Wed; Milton Keynes Theatre, Milton Keynes (01908 606090), next Sat

Last chance

The Soldier's Tale

Adam Cooper, Will Kemp and other leading ballet stars in Will Tuckett's new
production of Stravinsky's gripping Russian folktale, designed by the great Lez
Brotherston. Linbury Studio, Royal Opera House, London WC2 (020 7304 4000),
today.

Book now

Edinburgh

International Festival

Akram Khan premieres Ma (Playhouse, Aug 21-22); Ballet West USA dances an Antony
Tudor tribute, with Lilac Garden and Offenbach in the Underworld (Playhouse, Aug
27-30); modernist Alwin Nikolais has a half-century retrospective (King's
Theatre, Sept 1-4); and Rambert perform an all-Mahler evening, including Tudor's
masterly Dark Elegies and a new Kim Brandstrup (Playhouse, Sept 2-4).
Information: 0131

473 2000.

GIGS

Recommended

Missy Elliott

Rare UK appearances from the innovative, vociferous US hip-hop and R&B star.
Wembley Arena, London (0870 060 0870), today; MEN Arena, Manchester (0870 190
8000), tomorrow; SECC, Glasgow (0870 040 4000), Mon; NEC, Birmingham (0870 909

4133), Tues.

Dave Swarbrick Benefit

The ace folk and folk-rock fiddler has been unwell, to say the least, and awaits
the lung transplant that could transform his life. Meanwhile, his old chums from
Fairport Convention team up with Richard Digance, Waterson Carthy and Ralph
McTell to raise sorely needed funds. Birmingham Symphony Hall (0121 780 3333),
tomorrow.

Swindon Jazz Festival

Master pianist Stan Tracey and altoist Peter King top the bill at this Wiltshire
festival. Info: 01783 791043. From Tues to July 4.

Book now

Finn Brothers

Neil and Tim Finn, the New Zealand brothers who were behind Split Enz and, for a
while, Crowded House (although Tim quit under a cloud), have mended their fences
and joined up for a new album, to be released in August, and this extensive tour
of the UK. Melodic, wistful, emotion-drenched pop-rock is their stock in trade.
Credit card hotline: 0870 400 0688. From Oct 15 to Oct 31.

COMEDY

The choice

The Pub Landlord:

Giving It Both Barrels

Al Murray's ebullient, larger-than-life alter ego has been doing the rounds for
more than 10 years now, and there are some who think he should call time on a
character who has steadfastly refused to develop much inner life or move with
the times. But his double-edged forthrightness, which celebrates Britishness
even as it sends up native xenophobia, could hardly be more necessary now; what
with Euro 2004, UKIP and the war in Iraq, he's got ample ammunition for a
storming West End set. Cambridge Theatre, London WC2 (020 7494 5081), tomorrow.

Also recommended

Ross Noble: Noodlemeister

He never really went away, but it's nice to have him back on the road: more
sharp-witted surrealist waffling from the wizard-featured Geordie. Princess
Theatre, Torquay, (08702 414 120), tonight; Queen's Theatre, Barnstaple (01271
324242), tomorrow; South End Palace Theatre (01702 351135), Tues, Wed; Dartford
Orchard Theatre (01322 220000), Thurs; Assembly Rooms, Derby (01332 255800),
Fri.

Omid Djalili

A welcome UK tour from the family-sized Anglo-Iranian comic, who's poised to
become a sitcom star in America. Middlesbrough

Town Hall (01642 242561), tonight; St George's Hall, Bradford (01274 757575),
tomorrow; Beck Theatre, Hayes (020 8561 8371), Wed.

Book now

Lenny Henry:

So Much Things To Say

It's not so much what he says, as the way he says it that counts in Henry's
absorbing new show, coming to a civic centre near you. Tour starts Sept 24,
Derngate, Northampton (01604 624811), and runs until Dec 4.

To receive all of Going Out every Friday before publication, subscribe to our
free weekly culture listings email, at arts.telegraph.co.uk/artsemail

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              122 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

Britain signs up to new union of Europe Chirac clashes with Blair over summit
deal on constitution

BYLINE: By George Jones and Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 792 words

EUROPEAN leaders signed the EU's first constitution last night after an
acrimonious summit exposed deep divisions between Britain, France and Germany
over the future of Europe.

The historic deal was concluded after two years of wrangling, culminating in a
power struggle between Tony Blair and Jacques Chirac, the French president.

It sealed the union of 25 countries and 450 million citizens, extending across
the old Iron Curtain into former communist eastern Europe.

Mr Blair, weary but relieved, said after 12 hours of negotiations in Brussels
that a "new Europe" of strong, proud nation states that co-operated was taking
shape. It was one in which Britain could feel at home.

The Prime Minister said he had won all his key demands and retained the right of
veto on tax, foreign policy, social security and the rebate from the EU budget.
The constitution was a "great success for Britain and a success for Europe".

He said: "I don't think there is a consensus in Europe for some federal
superstate. That has gone as an idea."

He was immediately contradicted by Mr Chirac, who has been pressing for closer
European integration and who had earlier clashed sharply with him.

Mr Blair rebuked Mr Chirac and Gerhard Schroder, the German chancellor, for
treating the EU as if it were their exclusive inner circle. His spokesman said:
"There are no first-class and second-class citizens. We are all equal members of
the European community."

Mr Chirac said he was very happy with the result. It would create "a federation
of states but also of peoples". It would lead to "very extensive" advances in
majority voting, especially in justice and home affairs and opened the way for a
European prosecutor.

While it was regrettable that Britain had blocked majority voting on tax, "it
would happen anyway". Britain would not be able to stop core groups of countries
pressing ahead with integration on their own.

The summit leaders will see the accord on the constitution as a victory after a
wave of public apathy and Euroscepticism in last week's European Parliament
elections.

But the threat of rejection by any one of the member states due to hold a
referendum on the treaty could still sink it. Mr Blair confirmed that Britain
would hold a referendum by the end of 2006 but refused to be drawn on timing.

He acknowledged, after last week's surprise gains for the UK Independence Party,
which wants to pull out of the EU, that he had a lot of persuading to do. He
also admitted that he should have conceded the demand for a referendum earlier.

Relief over the deal was tempered by a failure to agree on a new president for
the European Union's executive to replace Romano Prodi.

The Irish EU presidency postponed the decision and Guy Verhofstadt, the Belgian
prime minister, who had been the front-runner, withdrew from the race.

France and Germany had pushed for him to be given the EU's leading job. But his
nomination was blocked by a British-led group of countries which said he was an
arch-federalist and anti-American.

That was after Mr Chirac had effectively vetoed the appointment of Chris Patten,
the former Tory chairman.

Mr Blair made clear that Mr Chirac and Mr Schroder, whose alliance has been
regarded as the motor of the EU, could no longer treat Europe as their private
club.

"We are operating in a Europe of 25, not six or two or one," his spokesman said.

While Mr Blair claimed success in securing his red-line safeguards on tax,
social security, foreign affairs and the budget rebate, agreement on the
constitution will plunge him into a domestic battle. The referendum will
be the first time the nation has voted on membership of Europe since its
decision in 1975 to stay in the Common Market.

The constitution introduces more majority voting, reducing the use of national
vetoes; gives national parliaments more say before EU legislation is enacted;
and creates a supreme court, a president of the European Council and a foreign
minister.

The leaders gave a standing ovation to Bertie Ahern, the Irish prime minister.
He resurrected negotiations that collapsed last December and steered them to
success through Dublin's six-month presidency of the EU. Mr Ahern acknowledged
the failure to agree a new commission president, but said: "I'm most glad we got
a constitution. I'm off to celebrate."

He ducked the question of whether he himself might take over the commission
presidency.

Mr Ahern, whose government remains in charge of running the EU until the end of
the month, said he still intended to work for an agreement on who replaces Mr
Prodi in October.

He knows that many EU leaders are now looking to him as a possible ideal
successor - particularly as he has just delivered a constitution deal.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              123 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

EU has had no real mandate for this extraordinary leap forward Commentary

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 978 words

DESCRIBED by Belgium's leader as the "capstone of a European federal state", the
constitution comes close to fulfilling the utopian vision sketched out by Jean
Monnet more than 50 years ago.

It brings together 450 million people from 25 states, embracing all the major
strands of European culture, in a rich, peaceful, and democratic union under one
supreme legal document - without a mention of God.

Equipped with its own full-time president, foreign minister, and diplomatic
service, the new EU has all the external trappings of a state, right down to its
own anthem, motto, flag, and Europe Day.

Whether it has the substance of a genuine superpower is another matter, and
whether it has the positive assent of ordinary people is the question that will
be decided in a string of hard-fought referendums over the next 18 months.

The EU had no real mandate for this extraordinary leap forward from a
treaty-based grouping of sovereign states to a single entity with its own "legal
personality" - allowing it to negotiate international treaties on an equal
footing.

For its first 30 years, the European Community muddled through with the Treaty
of Rome (1957). The pace of new treaties started to pick up after the British
joined - the Single European Act (1986), Maastricht and the euro (1992),
Amsterdam (1997), and Nice (2000) - accelerating into a final frenzy of
constitutional revolution over the last four years. Europe's leaders may be
pushing their luck too far by trying to entrench a deeply-integrated union so
quickly, before the people are ready.

The Laeken summit in December 2001 was originally billed as a "brain-storming
session" to explore ways to bring Europe closer to the citizens after the triple
trauma of the Danish 'No' to the euro, the Irish 'No' to Nice, and anti-EU riots
in Gothenberg.

Following the time-honoured pattern of "Euro-creep", the project metamorphosed
into a grand "Convention" of MPs, MEPs, and ministers under Valery Giscard
d'Estaing, the former French president wedded to Napoleonic notions of a "Europe
puissance". Downing Street at first scoffed at the venture as a harmless talk
shop, but quickly came to sense the dangers.

In his opening speech Mr Giscard d'Estaing coined the term "constitutional
treaty", which subtly evolved into "The European Constitution", the official
term on the front of the draft text.

It is presented now as an attempt to update the EU's clanking old machinery for
the needs of an enlarged Europe, but it does so entirely by adding more powers,
failing to tackle the deformities of the common agricultural and fisheries
policies or to clear up the exact allocation of powers between Brussels and the
member states.

The text is full of ambiguities and "mini-passarelle" clauses paving the way for
Brussels slowly to slice off more power in the future. Elmar Brok, a German MEP
and a key figure in the constitution talks, admits that the real motive was to
lock in the federalist vision before the proud and troublesome newcomers from
Eastern Europe swarmed in and extinguished such dreams forever. As it happens,
the timetable has now slipped.

The fait accompli comes too late.

In Brussels terms, the outcome is seen as a British "triumph". London headed off
efforts by EU insiders to concentrate power in the most "federalist" part of the
European system: the commission.

Instead, the big powers will retain the whip hand through the Council of
Ministers, where Britain, France, and Germany can stitch up the agenda as an
elite "Directoire" - the nightmare of little states that cling to the commission
as the guardian of the collective interest.

David Heathcoat-Amory, a Tory MP on the drafting body, said these subtleties
were likely to be lost on the British voter. "Shifting power from one building
to another in Brussels is irrelevant: the big issue is whether power remains at
Westminster at all or goes to Brussels, and under this constitution there will
be a massive further transfer of powers to Europe," he said.

Tony Blair's chances for a "Yes" vote look grim after the election of 12 UK
Independence Party MEPs and a firebrand team of sceptical young Tory MEPs as
well last weekend, on relatively high turn-out. Denmark, Ireland, Holland,
Luxembourg, the Czech Republic, Estonia, and Belgium are holding votes, and will
probably be joined by Portugal, Poland, and Spain.

The chances of multiple mishaps are high, even probable. The Poles voted
overwhelmingly last year to join the EU, but the reflexes are already changing
now that Poland is safely inside the western security club and shielded from
Russia.

If a single country fails to ratify the treaty it is legally - though not
politically - null and void. In reality, a "Petit Non" by a small country is not
the same as a "Grand Non" by one of the big players. If the now tetchy Dutch say
no, they will count large as card-carrying federalists and founder members of
the club.

Ultimately the key is France, where President Jacques Chirac is struggling to
fend off growing calls for a vote from the Socialist opposition, and from his
party's own Dauphin and finance minister, the formidable Nicholas Sarkozy.

The French came within a whisker of rejecting the Maastricht Treaty in 1992. Now
they seem even less enamoured with Brussels, decrying an Anglo-Saxon take-over
of the EU machinery.

The constitution may have been a Franco-German project, but that does not mean
the French people feel any great stake in its success.

Europe's political elites had a chance to rebuild the EU on a whole new footing,
one that could help reverse economic decline, face up to a blast of competition
from China and India, and give more breathing space to Europe's fractious
tribes. Instead, they opted for more of the same 1950s Monnet project. Now they
will have to sell their unreadable blueprint to the people.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              124 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

The battle in Brussels is over, now the fight at home begins

BYLINE: By Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 406 words

TONY Blair wasted no time in hailing last night's deal on the European
constitution as good news both for Britain and Europe. But there were plenty of
his MPs and ministers who suspected it was not such good news for Mr Blair.

It is not that Labour pro-Europeans dislike the content of the constitution.
Most have their reservations, but the majority regard it as an acceptable
document that will help an enlarged EU work more efficiently.

The problem, they argue, dates back to Mr Blair's decision earlier this year to
abandon his opposition to a referendum. If he were to lose the vote, likely to
be held within a year or so of a general election, his position as Prime
Minister and Labour leader would be untenable.

The battle of Brussels may be over for Mr Blair but now the real fight over
Europe begins on home soil.

The surge in last week's European election of the United Kingdom Independence
Party, which gained 16 per cent of the vote, showed how the anti-constitution
message has begun to merge in the minds of large sections of the public with
populist appeals to withdraw from the European Union altogether.

It is now hard to find a single Labour MP or adviser who is confident that Mr
Blair can win a referendum on the constitution.

Even the Prime Minister himself is said, in his darker moments, to have
regretted the referendum U-turn within days of deciding to perform it while
lounging in the sun in Bermuda over Easter.

Europe, Mr Blair also knows, will now be a central issue in a general election
campaign, too.

But if the European cloud now hovers over Labour's next two years, it could also
rain on Michael Howard's parade. The Tory vote suffered heavily from UKIP's
advance on June 10 and Conservatives have to find a way to see off its advance
in the run-up to the general election.

Mr Howard may be a natural Eurosceptic but he is determined that the Tories
should not be dragged any further to the Right.

He wants his party to be in the mainstream, arguing for a reformed Europe, for
repatriation to Britain of EU powers over fishing and overseas aid, but in there
all the same.

The problem is that UKIP's success has excited the hard-line Eurosceptic Right
in his party and encouraged them to call for a far tougher anti-EU message.

The issue of Europe, one that Iain Duncan Smith successfully pushed into the
background during his leadership, threatens to become a divisive one again.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              125 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

Our Euro-sceptic dukes and earls would not be allowed to serve their time in
British prisons Notebook

BYLINE: BY FRANK JOHNSON

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 22

LENGTH: 576 words

The Englishmen arrested for hooliganism in Portugal included the son of an
Oxford lecturer, the grandson of a judge, a young man about to read archaeology
at Birmingham University, and a Sussex University computer graduate. The middle
classes, it seems, have become involved in football hooliganism.

But, in the same week, there has been something just as interesting to do with
class that has gone unnoticed: the three dukes among Ukip's patrons - Somerset,
Rutland and the late Devonshire, as well as the Earl of Bradford and Lord
Neidpath, heir to the earldom of Wemyss. In addition, the Earl of Dartmouth
supports Ukip and had a letter in this week's Daily Telegraph about the proposed
European Constitution. The aristocracy, it seems, has taken up Euro-scepticism -
which the liberal classes consider to be as anti-social as hooliganism.

So far, none of the Ukip dukes and earls has been arrested. But if they indulge
in Euro-scepticism on the Continent, the police might take a sterner view.
Unlike our football hooligans, our Euro-sceptic dukes and earls would not be
allowed to serve their sentences in British prisons. The Continentals know that
our courts tend to be lenient towards defendants with hereditary titles. We have
not hanged one since the 18th century.

Liberals, so many of whom are snobs, will ask themselves: how could a duke or an
earl end up a Euro-sceptic? Some will blame our education system, or violent
television, violent field sports, or the junk food easily available on their
estates, such as pheasant. Certainly, since Tony Blair's attack on hereditary
peers, many dukes and earls have suffered from low self-esteem. Euro-scepticism
could be their way of expressing a grudge against middle-class society.

The late Duke of Devonshire, however, had every advantage in life because he was
a friend of Roy Jenkins, Britain's grandest European, and indeed Britain's
grandest Briton. Yet the duke still ended up a Euro-sceptic. More study is
needed.

The combined Tory and Ukip votes in the Euro-elections comprised a
near-majority. Comment has concentrated on how bad this split in the
Euro-sceptic vote is for the Tories, and how much it shows Ukip's new power.

It probably is bad for the Tories. It is hard to imagine anything that Michael
Howard could say about Europe that would deter Ukip from fielding candidates at
the general election. This will take votes from the Tories.

But, at a broader - or possibly higher - level, it shows something else: that
England, from which most of both the Tory and Ukip vote comes, has a veto on
further integration with Europe. It is like the Ulster Unionist veto on a united
Ireland: the Orange Card. Against Europe, England will long play the St George
Card - another reason for liberal-Left disapproval of Euro-scepticism.

I am not sure that all of those Englishmen arrested for hooliganism in Portugal
are guilty. The two who proclaimed their innocence on yesterday's Today sounded
convincing.

We can imagine the Duke of Rutland, or the Earl of Dartmouth, arrested in Paris
for Euro-scepticism, explaining that they were nowhere near the trouble. They
were just enjoying a kir royal in the Crillon Bar. All right, they may have been
bare-chested and showing their tattoos, but that's not the same as being
violent. Then, all of sudden, the gendarmes burst in and nabbed the first two
blokes they saw who looked like English toffs, which was a diabolical liberty.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              126 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 19, 2004

BUT NOW CAN HE SELL IT TO BRITAIN?; BLAIR SIGNS EURO TREATY

BYLINE: From Alison Little in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 467 words


TONY Blair last night signed the EU Constitution at the end of a tough-talking
summit in which Anglo-French relations dipped to a new low.

Agreement on an historic new rulebook for the EU was finally confirmed after
leaders of the 25 nations ironed out their differences in two days of fraught
negotiations.

Now Mr Blair faces the prospect of getting it through Parliament then selling it
to a sceptical British public in his promised referendum, which all polls to
date indicate he will lose.

A separate issue, the appointment of a new EU Commission President remained in
deadlock, causing unprecedented friction in Brussels between Britain and
Europe's newer members on one side, and the "old Europe" alliance of France and
Germany on the other.

The Constitution sets out how the enlarged EU will be run, with more issues able
to be decided by majority rather than unanimous vote of the member states.

Mr Blair said last night that Britain's success at the talks was proof that a
"new Europe" was emerging - indicating that the era of the dominant
Franco-German drive for ever-greater European integration was at an end.

He said: "A new Europe is taking shape, a Europe in which Britain can build
alliances and feel at home, in which there isn't one dominant view."

He declared all-out victory for Britain on all the key areas he went into the
talks to protect, including the national veto on tax, social security, foreign
policy, defence and control over union laws.

And he insisted there had been no issue in what had been "difficult" talks on
which Britain had been isolated.

Instead it had found a range of alliances on which it could build. He indicated
a referendum would take place by 2006 and admitted he had "probably" been
mistaken initially to resist the idea of having one.

He confirmed that discussions on a new EU Commission president would have to
continue at a later date.

But the UK Independence Party accused Mr Blair of "breathtaking arrogance and
utter disregard for the will of the British people" by agreeing the constitution
in the wake of the euro-poll showing increased dissatisfaction with European
integration.

And Tory deputy Michael Ancram said: "This Constitution would be bad for Britain
and bad for Europe."

Earlier Mr Blair launched an extraordinary broadside at French President Jacques
Chirac over his behaviour at the talks. Germany also came in for criticism.

Mr Blair's spokesman accused France and Germany of trying to have Europe all
their own way. "What we all have to accept is that we are operating in a Europe
of 25, not a Europe of six or two or one, " said the spokesman.

"The rules of the 1950s no longer apply when you get to 25 and perhaps what's
happened in the last 24 hours underlines that."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              127 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 19, 2004

Letters: Why Brits are the pits

BYLINE: Jerome Mazandarani

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 247 words


It seems that our once-proud nation's Euroscepticism is to blame for the dismal
behaviour of our citizens in Portugal this week (Tension and fear in town hit by
violence, June 18). Of course, all of the attention is being focused on the
football thugs - but does it not escape people's attention how deplorably most
English behave when they are abroad? The binge-drinking, fighting, and loud and
abusive behaviour is not exclusive to football fans. I've seen whole families
behave like this on the beaches of Crete, Turkey and Spain. As a culture we
revel in our lack of culture and celebrate ignorance as a virtue.

The UK Independence party's recent electoral wins will surely assist a speedy
separation from the EU. The good people of England elected them so they can
sabotage Britain's efforts in the EU, just as those few moronic so-called
"supporters" are doing for the chances of the England team.

Maybe if England was more closely entwined with Europe, we would have a greater
respect and appreciation for their way of life. Instead, we choose to isolate
ourselves with our oafish behaviour. On the continent I never see drunks lining
doorways, or stewing in puddles of their own vomit. While enjoying the night
life of the Bastille or Montmarte, I have never witnessed women fighting with
one another. There is nothing big or clever about being the pit bull of Europe.
Let's live like Europeans, it's so much more civilised.

Jerome Mazandarani

London


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              128 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 19, 2004

Leading article: The Greens: Labour must take heed

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 435 words


With its 16% share of the vote in the European elections, the UK independence
party inevitably grabbed most of the limelight last week among the "other"
parties. Equally inevitably, the lion's share of subsequent analysis of the June
10 result's political impact has focused on Ukip's ability to damage the
Conservatives at a general election. As the dust settles, however, it would be a
mistake to overlook an equally intriguing aspect of the minor party results. The
Green party had a good election on June 10. In places where they stood in the
locals, the party took an average 10%. The Greens retained all but one of their
local council seats and added a handful of others. They made a respectable
showing in the European elections too, boosting their national share to 6.3%
overall, with particularly good results in London and the south-east regions. In
the London mayoral election, 14% of the voters chose the Greens as their first
or, in most cases, their second preference.

These are the results of a party which could have a significant marginal impact
in a general election. In several places - in London most obviously, but also in
Brighton, Norwich and Oxford - the Greens could now do better in 2005 than in
2001, when candidates in about a dozen (largely urban and middle-class)
constituencies polled between 2% and 10%. With all the signs pointing to a much
tighter contest, the Greens may have an effect on Labour's chances of holding
seats like Brighton Pavilion, Bristol West, Lancaster and Wyre, and Watford.
They may affect the looming byelection in Leicester South, too.

There have been Green surges at earlier European elections which have mostly
failed to repeat themselves in general elections. That could happen again. Green
party activists are congenitally conflicted over whether they want to maximise
their vote or their virtue. They have a knack of dropping the ball when the
prospect of success looms. But the party, though small, is showing some sticking
power. This time, that enabled it to see off the leftist Respect challenge to
its position as the left's best of the rest.

Like Ralph Nader in the US presidential contest, the Greens may be marginal but
important in a close run thing. That poses a challenge to Labour which needs a
strategy to deal with a Green "Nader effect". One obvious tactic would be to
give more priority to the environment in coming months. Whether that would
impress either Green fundamentalists or incorrigibly angry ex-Labour supporters
must be open to doubt. But in its current decline, Labour can hardly afford not
to try.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              129 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 19, 2004

Face to Faith: God goes to Brussels

BYLINE: Jonathan Bartley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 676 words


Tomorrow has been declared Politics Sunday - not a reference to the power
struggles within the Anglican communion, but an initiative by Christian
groupings within the main political parties who want to see congregations play a
more active part in public life.

It was refreshing to see the assortment of parishes, dioceses, denominations and
para-church coalitions that lined up to denounce rightwing extremism in the
local and European elections. But while the churches find it relatively easy to
rally against racism in the British National party, achieving a consensus on the
appropriate response to other rightwing parties will be less easy.

It is a safe bet that among the one in six Euro-electors who voted to "take
their country back from Brussels" there were quite a few churchgoers. Why should
the opinions of the man or woman in the pew be distinguishable from anyone
else's - even when it comes to the question of whether God should get a name
check in the preamble to the EU constitution?

Nonetheless, there is a strong argument that the very concept of a European
community is essentially a Christian one, with its roots deep in the biblical
narrative. The story of the Tower of Babel suggests that the existence of
separate nations can be seen as a consequence of sin. Humankind had concentrated
power in one place in a challenge to divine power, so God confounded them with a
sudden diversity of language, and they scattered and divided.

On the Day of Pentecost, however - when the church was born - those divisions of
language disappeared as everyone heard the disciples speaking in their own
tongue. A new community came into being, whose identity centres on citizenship
of a kingdom that takes precedence over every nation and state. Now, as Paul
said, "there is neither Jew nor Greek". A key word the New Testament writers
apply to the church is ekklesia , a secular term that suggests a political
community.

Christians have since fallen into the error of aligning their religion with
national loyalties. Secular leaders, too, have used Christianity to establish a
coherent national culture. But Christian eschatology - the perspective that
considers the ultimate destiny of the world - challenges such thinking. Rather
than looking back to an imagined golden age when religion was central to the
national psyche, the Christian vision of the future involves nothing less than
the abolition of the nation state.

If we allow the logic of this vision to shape our thinking, it will change even
the most basic assumptions of contemporary political debate about Europe. Rather
than discussing "the national interest", we will find that the most important
con-sideration is what is good for the whole community. It is individual states
that must justify their existence, not the community of nations.

Not that this will lead automatically to an enthusiastic endorsement of
everything the EU does. There are important questions we must ask about the way
it functions, but what a Christian perspective does is to change the way we
identify and assess its shortcomings.

This is neither a Europhobic nor a Europhilic position, but a Eurocompassionate
one. As Catholic social teaching points out, the recognition that every member
of a community is made in the image of God demands an equal regard for the
interests of all, and a particular regard for the most vulnerable.

A question over the single currency or the constitution becomes an issue, not of
how our national interest will be affected, but of what the impact will be on
the weakest members of the community - and those beyond its borders.

To abandon the vision of a European community altogether and retreat into a
narrow nationalism, as Ukip proposes, is an answer to the wrong question. Ask
not what the EU can do for your country, but what your country can do for the
EU.

Jonathan Bartley is director of the thinktank Ekklesia, publishers of Towards
The Abolition Of The Nation State? European And National Identity In Christian
Perspective


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 19, 2004

Sykes moves up the Ukip ladder: Millionaire backer takes key job as party
profile is raised

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 547 words


Paul Sykes, the multimillion pound financier of the UK Independence party, took
his first step towards becoming its chairman when he was appointed the party's
regional director for the North and Scotland yesterday.

The decision was taken at a meeting of the party's national executive where the
leadership digested the consequences of its breakthrough in the European
parliament elections.

Mr Sykes, worth over £300m, is known to want to get a grip on the party's
ramshackle and faction ridden organisation. He gave the party £1m for the
European campaign.

He is also known to be worried that the party will come to be dominated by
Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former TV presenter who spearheaded the Ukip election
breakthrough.

The party, which won 12 seats at the elections, is enjoying a sudden influx of
Brussels cash. It will also be entitled to money for the regional assembly
referendums this autumn.

It is expected to reopen its London headquarters, which were closed after the
lease ran out and the party threw all its money at the European campaign.

Mr Kilroy-Silk inevitably has differences with the long-established Ukip
leadership, including Nigel Farage and the former Tory MP Roger Knapman, who was
elected leader for a four-year term two years ago.

Mr Sykes is trying to keep the tensions under control.

In a sign of the party adjusting to its new prominence, the current chairman
David Lott, decided at the beginning of the week to stand down.

Aged 71, he narrowly failed to win a seat as an MEP, but also had this week to
make an out of court settlement following a dispute with another party member,
Damian Hockney, now leader of Ukip in the London Assembly.

Mr Lott and the party's communications director, Mark Croucher, agreed to an out
of court settlement after accusations that Mr Hockney had links with the British
National party.

The settlement will clear him of the alleged links.

The row started when Mr Hockney sent a private memo to 500 Ukip party members
last November, saying he feared the party was drifting away from its commitment
to leave the EU. The memo was leaked. Costs of the case are not yet clear.

The party had been delaying for months an internal ballot to choose the members
of its 15-strong national executive committee - triggering a self-styled
reformist faction to threaten legal action against the leadership to halt the
poll. Two members claimed they had been wrongly disbarred from the election.

Four new members of the executive were elected and attended yesterday's meeting.

The reformists argued in favour of fighting elections solely at Westminster
because only MPs have the power to pull Britain out of the EU.

Mr Hockney is barred from standing for the NEC for two years over an internal
wrangle, and he has begun legal proceedings linked to claims in a report
published within the party.

Ukip has been persistently riven by internal dissent, and the test for Mr Sykes
will be whether the party can get a grip on itself now that it has shot into the
limelight.

In 1999, Michael Holmes was deposed as leader. In January this year, Mr Harvey
was locked out of party headquarters, which were then transferred from London to
Birmingham.

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              131 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

LEADING ARTICLE: THIS LAND IS OURS...

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 194 words


IT'S A brave soul who takes on the world's most famous female pop icon -
especially if she's named after the mother of God and armed with an intimate
knowledge of Kabbalah and a husband fond of shooting. But then, they don't come
much braver than Britain's rambling community.

These anorak-clad radicals challenged Madonna's attempts to seal off her
Wiltshire estate and asserted their "right to roam" over part of the Material
Girl's property. Sadly, they were not totally successful; parts of her estate
will remain closed to walkers. But let's call it a draw for now.

We worry that her Madgesty may have taken this "country life" pose a bit too
far. We can cope with a bit of Barbour and maybe even a bit of huntin', shootin'
and fishin', but she is in danger of morphing into an intolerant, red-faced
land-owner. Next she'll be claiming big subsidies from Brussels, organising a
fuel protest or joining Joan Collins in the UK Independence Party.

We suggest, in the spirit of reconciliation, that Madonna records a cover of a
pertinent Woody Guthrie classic on her next album. Sing along now: "This land is
your land, this land is my land..."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              132 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 19, 2004

SILK GETS UNDER MY SKIN

BYLINE: Lorraine Kelly

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 120 words


I CANNOT listen to a single word uttered by Robert Kilroy-Silk (a blessing I'm
sure you will agree) because I just can't take my eyes off his face.

He is an astonishing shade of orange.

While he drones on, all I can think about is how exactly does he achieve that
tangerine, day-glo look?

Is it out of a bottle? If so, it must be a very old one because fake tans have
progressed a lot since the days of streaks and satsuma palms.

Maybe it's a sunbed. Or I suppose there's an outside chance it might even be
genuine and acquired at his second home in sunny Spain?

And isn't it odd that so many of the hierarchy of UKIP have places abroad in
countries they despise and want nothing to do with?


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              133 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

Tories and UKIP claim agreement is bad for Britain

BYLINE: Chris Johnston

SECTION: Overseas news; 4

LENGTH: 445 words


The Tories and the UK Independence Party both condemned last night's
announcement that agreement had been reached on the European constitution.

Michael Ancram, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, said that the agreement on the
European constitution reached by leaders of member states in Brussels would be
bad for Britain as well as Europe.

"The majority of British people -and business -oppose it. Tony Blair hasn't
listened to them. He's deaf to their concerns.

"His red lines are red herrings. Europe's top judge said on Friday that the
constitution would give European judges major new powers over our daily lives.
How businesses are run, civil liberties, criminal sentences and British courts -
Europe will now have more control over these and more.

"That's why we will oppose the constitution, as it will damage our jobs, living
standards and democracy."

UKIP said that British voters had been betrayed by Tony Blair's expected signing
of the constitution. Roger Knapman, the party's leader, said that signing the
deal demonstrated Mr Blair's "utter disregard" for the will of the British
people just days after voters rejected the Government's European policy in last
week's European elections.

"This is an absolute betrayal of the British electorate by a Government which is
set on following its own agenda regardless of the wishes of the British people,"
he said.

"Voters sent Mr Blair a clear message only eight days ago, when they
categorically said 'no' to the European Union and its plans for a constitution.
His decision to ignore the democratic will of the nation is one which voters
will not soon forget.

Now the constitution is signed, there is no excuse for not holding the
referendum immediately. He has promised voters a say, and he should let them
have it, and have it now. I am absolutely certain that the British people will
reject the constitution out of hand, and when they do, he should resign. He has
left himself no other option."

The strongly pro-European Liberal Democrats welcomed reports that European
leaders had been able to set aside their differences and agree a constitution
six weeks after the Continent was reunited. A spokesman for the party hoped that
it would prove to be workable and said the challenge was now to show voters in
Britain, as well as the rest of Europe, the merits of the document.

Britain in Europe, the lobby group, also welcomed the agreement. A spokesman
said that it would give Britain a chance to be at the centre of the debate. He
said that the organisation would campaign for a 'yes' vote if the Government
decided to go ahead with a referendum on the constitution.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

Short-term gain brings Labour long-term pain

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Features; 4

LENGTH: 533 words


When Tony Blair promised a referendum on a European constitution, he sought a
short-term tactical advantage but created a longer-term strategic problem.

By contrast, he created a short-term tactical problem for Michael Howard, but
offered him a potential longer-term strategic advantage.

Mr Blair's aim is to remove Europe as a general election issue. He argues that
voters should judge Labour on the economy and public services and they will have
a vote later -probably in autumn 2005 or spring 2006 -on the European
constitution.

This is similar to the pre-1997 promise of a referendum on the euro: isolate an
unpopular issue, and focus on the more popular.

This approach makes sense in electoral terms. Europe rates very low in most
voters' priorities, coming tenth on a list of important issues in a recent
Populus poll. Only a minority cares passionately about Europe. Admittedly,
promising a referendum on the constitution did not do Labour much good in the
recent elections, but it also did not help the Tories. The removal of
potentially their most effective theme left a vacuum that the UK Independence
Party exploited.

In response, Mr Howard has not shifted the Tories' "live and let live" line on
Europe, but he has hardened his tone of opposition to the constitution in recent
days. Indeed, his strong denunciations of any constitution are partly intended
to reassure Tories, including many who voted for the UKIP, that he is not
diluting his scepticism.

To that extent, the promise of a referendum has polarised opinion, making the
defeat of any constitution vital for Mr Howard to protect his flank against the
UKIP.

Mr Blair's dilemma is that he has merely put off, rather than avoided, an
awkward decision.

He will defend any deal as having ensured that the British "red lines", its veto
over taxation, social security and foreign and defence policy, have been
protected and, therefore, there is nothing alarming in the constitution.
Labour's hope, then, is that the issue will disappear from public prominence and
not be a major issue at the next election.

For Labour strategists, the other side of the general election now seems like
the indefinite future. But, unlike the euro, the postponement is not indefinite.
At present, a referendum would probably be lost. But, of course, polls have been
taken before the final provisions of any constitution are agreed. A Populus poll
last month showed that, while the public was against by 32 to 26 per cent, some
29 per cent probably would not vote.

However, it will obviously be very hard for Mr Blair to win any referendum.

Turnout may be low and, as last week's elections showed, most of the passions
are on the sceptic side. Fewer Tories than any other group said they would
probably not vote.

Mr Blair hopes that pressure from the UKIP and its Tory allies will force Mr
Howard into a more sceptical language. Labour will try to portray the choice as
"in or out" of the EU, an argument, of course, vigorously denied by the Tory
leadership.

This is all a very high-risk strategy for Mr Blair. If he loses, his premiership
may be over -and the Tories will scent electoral victory.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              135 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

Brussels grant to fund UKIP's anti-EU battle

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 14

LENGTH: 772 words


The European Union will pay the UK Independence Party at least £1.5 million a
year to set up a party base with the aim of "wrecking" the EU.

All 12 of the UKIP MEPs will visit Brussels next week and the alliances they
make with other Eurosceptic groups could allow the party to benefit from more
than £5 million of EU money annually for extra staff and resources, on top of
the many administrative posts automatically provided by the European Parliament.

This windfall will make an enormous impact on the young party, enabling it to
establish a Brussels base, recruit dozens of strategists and researchers and
investigate EU waste and corruption.

European Parliament rules state that the allowances given to MEPs for staff and
research can also be used to fight referendums on "European subjects". This will
allow the UKIP to channel some of it into its "no" campaign in the referendum on
the European constitution, but probably not in the regional assembly campaign.

The UKIP will fund its new research unit by amassing its MEPs' staffing
allowances. Each MEP receives about £100,000 a year to employ staff, on top of
£30,000 towards office costs and a generous travel allowance.

The party accrues more benefits by being part of an official group in the
Parliament, giving it about an extra £30,000 annually per MEP for research and
publicity purposes.

"Amazingly, it doesn't stop there," Jeffrey Titford, the leader of the UKIP in
the European Parliament, said. "Certain other appointments are paid for by
Parliament, depending on the make-up of the group."

Since it was elected to the European Parliament in 1999 the party has generally
used Mr Titford's room as a base; now it will be able to rent office
accommodation.

"There is a wonderful irony here," Mr Titford said. "It gives us a tremendous
boost that will give our candidates a lot more ammunition against the EU and
develop the party as a whole."

The 12 UKIP MEPs -nine of them, including Robert Kilroy-Silk, newly elected last
week -will travel to Brussels to negotiate the final make-up of their
Eurosceptic group. They hope to build a group of 40 Eurosceptic MEPs drawn from
Poland, France and the Netherlands, who could pool their resources with the
UKIP's research group.

Mr Titford said that despite the fact that the UKIP would be the largest
Eurosceptic party in the European Parliament, it might still allow the Danish
MEP Jens-Peter Bonde to lead the group.

He could share a joint presidency with the UKIP because he had enormous
experience of fighting the "no" referendum to the euro in Denmark and could help
the UKIP in fighting the "no" campaign against the European constitution, Mr
Titford said.

Speculation that Mr Kilroy-Silk would take over leadership of the party is being
quashed by members of the UKIP's old guard. On the BBC Radio 4 Today programme
yesterday Mr Kilroy-Silk refused to say whether he wanted to be leader of the
party.

However, Dick Morris, President Clinton's former political adviser and the
UKIP's special consultant for its recent election campaign, moved firmly against
the idea on Thursday night. On Question Time on BBC One Mr Morris -who was in
London advising the party on its general election campaign -rebutted a question
about Mr Kilroy-Silk by saying that he had "only been in the party for eight
weeks".

David Lott, the outgoing chairman of the UKIP, said that the position of Roger
Knapman, the current leader, was unquestioned, while Mr Titford said that Mr
Kilroy-Silk would attend plenary sessions and voting sessions of the Parliament
but would not be more actively involved in committees.

Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire shopping-centre tycoon, was appointed yesterday as
director of the UKIP's "no" campaign in the referendums to be held in October on
regional assemblies for England.

The appointment was made at a meeting of the national executive in London to
decide on a massive expansion and reorganisation of the party to fight a general
election.

Mr Sykes is also tipped to become the new party chairman after his substantial
financial support of the UKIP. His £1 million donation to its European election
campaign played a crucial role in its gaining 16 per cent of the vote.

His appointment guarantees cashflow for the three referendums on assemblies for
the North West, North East, and Yorkshire, which are the UKIP's next big
project.

"Paul is absolutely delighted to take it on," Mr Lott said. "He's terribly
concerned that these assemblies are just another way for Brussels to circumvent
our national Government in Westminster."


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              136 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 19, 2004, Saturday

UKIP's questionable election result

SECTION: Features; 29

LENGTH: 37 words


From Mr Otto Stevens Sir, I plan to join the UKIP in order to wreck it.

Yours faithfully, OTTO STEVENS, Broken House, Oxford Road, Wendlebury,
Oxfordshire OX25 2PT.

otto.stevens@btopenworld.com

June 17.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 18, 2004

Brussels breakdown is Blair's best hope

BYLINE: ANDREW ALEXANDER

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 851 words


BEFORE the UKIP vote transformed the political landscape, it was all too easy to
predict what Tony Blair would do in Brussels this weekend.

Winning the odd real concession here and a futile assurance there he would
capitulate on various of those supposedly inviolable 'red lines' and the EU
would move inexorably towards a Federal Europe.

But to do that now would be remarkably reckless - a gift to the Tories and to
the UKIP.

This leaves the interesting possibility of him returning with a triumphant
failure and garlanded with patriotic laurels. Vetoing the new constitution would
mean no doomed referendum, no giving way on essential British interests.

It would take some wind out the Tories' sails and, incidentally, Chancellor
Gordon Brown's, too. He seemed almost to be saying at Wednesday's Lord Mayor's
Banquet in the City that he (unlike certain others) would be no patsy in Euro
negotiations.

Of course, this would be only a short-term solution to Blair's problems and
obviously at odds with his Euroobsession. Moreover, the pressure for a
constitution and all its awkwardnesses would not go away.

But for someone in Blair's fragile position, short-term solutions are what
matter. A week is still a long time in politics. Personal survival is the key.
Besides, there are now 25 nations in the EU and others might start being awkward
about the constitution, thus helping to keep this dangerous issue at arm's
length.

Admittedly, the possibility exists that other heads of government in Brussels,
not least recognising their colleague's awkward position, might make a whole
series of concessions on all the red lines laid down by Britain.

And Blair might be tempted to sign up. But a constitution is a constitution and,
as such, unacceptable - and unsaleable - to most of the electorate.

INEVITABLY, in the wake of the European elections, we have had both political
parties and their media allies explaining away the results with heartfelt
insincerity. Various Tories claim that what many UKIP voters wanted was to send
a signal to Michael Howard about how much they admired his pressure for reform
and that he should keep it up.

As for the Europhiles, they admit to being shocked. But what the vote really
means, they told us and each other, is that they themselves have been remiss in
explaining the great benefits of EU membership and must do better now. As if 30
years of non- stop, pro-EU propaganda, often involving taxpayers' money, has not
been enough.

THERE has been an interesting development in the BBC's pro-EU stance.

Following complaints, a memo went to the current affairs people recently saying
that bold assertions by politicians about the importance of the EU to jobs
should not be treated as unquestionable Holy Writ.

It does not seem to have had much effect. Blair was promptly given a free run in
his twice proclaimed assertion that 60 per cent of Britain's trade and three
million jobs depended on EU membership.

The reality is that about half of our export trade in goods, accounting for 10
per cent of total British trade, goes to the EU. Three million jobs would be
involved only if all our trade with the EU stopped completely - an unimaginable
development.

In trade terms, the EU needs us more than we need the EU. Even if there was no
free trade agreement the external tariff is now only 1.5 per cent.

Do we have to write a script for BBC interviewers to get Blair properly
interviewed?

WE HAVE also had a bellyful from politicians of one of the most tiresome of
phrases. If the term 'frankly' is so often a signal that a politician is about
to tell a whopper, then the comment that something is 'absolutely clear' is an
even firmer indication that a cloud of confusion is on its way.

Listening to bossy Trade and Industry Secretary Patricia Hewitt on the elections
this week, I wanted to kick a hole in the TV screen every time she assured us
that Labour's position was 'absolutely clear'.

When Tony Blair reports on Brussels I bet he will precede his most obfuscating
passages with the declaration that his position is absolutely clear. Watch for
it.

Michael Howard also uses the phrase too often. He needs to be asked a simple
question: are there no circumstances whatever in which he might be prepared to
advocate leaving the EU? Even if it refused any concessions whatsoever on all
those issues he deems as essential to British self-government and prosperity?

That is an area where some real clarity would be welcome.

SUNDAY'S vote did leave me wondering if I had got our EU membership wrong after
all. Last year I wrote that Britain was bound to leave the EU one day.

I only doubted whether this joyous event would happen in my lifetime. Now the
timetable is looking rosier.

However, that's enough mockhumility for one day. It has never been too difficult
to see that, eventually, the worm would turn. Add up the advantages of staying
in the EU (doesn't take long) and set that off against the disadvantages and you
have a balance sheet which screams 'leave'. We shall.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              138 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 18, 2004

BLAIR IN FIGHT TO SCUPPER EU LOONY

BYLINE: by MACER HALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 270 words


TONY Blair flew into a huge Euro row at crucial EU talks in Brussels last night.

The Prime Minister tried to block a Belgian leftie from taking one of the top EU
jobs - and put Britain on a collision course with Germany.

Mr Blair wanted to stop Guy Verhofstadt replacing Italian Romano Prodi as
European Commission President, a key post which involves making decisions that
will affect the lives of millions of EU citizens.

The 51-year-old Belgian premier, who opposed the war in Iraq, wants the EU to
raise taxes.

Germany backs him as top candidate for the job.

But a senior British official said: "The UK does not support Mr Verhofstadt for
the presidency of the Commission."

Mr Blair also faces a row over the proposed EU constitution - a planned rule
book for Europe.

Critics claim it will give government powers to Brussels bureaucrats.

Mr Blair is trying to stop Brussels controlling tax, defence, law and order, and
employment law.

Some of Britain's new UKIP MEPs also arrived in Brussels last night.

The anti-EU party is planning to disrupt the European Parliament after winning
12 seats in last week's elections.

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said: "We want to obstruct and delay legislation. If we
can do that, we know there will be thousands of British businesses cheering very
loudly."

Half Britain's voters have still not decided which way to vote in the referendum
on the EU constitution, according to a new poll.

Over a quarter (28%) will definitely vote against - double the number commited
to a "Yes" vote.

But only 32% are sure what the vote will be about.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              139 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

At last?

BYLINE: by Peter Simple

SECTION: News; End column: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 266 words

WHAT is the meaning of the sudden emergence of UKIP, which has put the
established political parties into such a panic? Is it our fear of being coerced
and put at the mercy of the vast, complicated, mysterious and notoriously
corrupt bureaucracy misleadingly known as "Europe"? Yes, but it must have been a
feeling far stronger than that which made so many ordinary voters reject the
established politicians who have betrayed us.

Is it our anger at everything that has gone wrong with England in the last half
century and transformed it utterly from the country it had been for centuries;
mass immigration of alien people; incessant propaganda for "multiracialism" in
its various forms; laws which have made it difficult if not impossible to
discuss these matters honestly and openly. Is it our anger at being at the mercy
of a system of thought which has reduced a once independent-minded people to a
state of morbid guilt that defies their instincts and even their commonsense?

What is really surprising is that no such explosion of anger has occurred long
before this, that the Left-liberal establishment has succeeded so well in
silencing all effective opposition. However moderate, tentative and limited UKIP
now seems to be, it may just possibly be the precursor of a genuine revolt
against the deceptively mild-seeming tyranny of the conventional parties. Are
the people of England "that never have spoken yet" going to speak at last? Such
a long-delayed miracle, though improbable in the extreme, is not impossible.
Those who live longest, as the saying is, will see the most.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              140 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

Lord Howard's rising

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 27

LENGTH: 125 words

Greville Howard - Tory donor and friend of Iain Duncan Smith - has finally taken
his seat in the House of Lords as Lord Howard of Rising. His ennoblement has
hardly been the smoothest of processes. First, there were accusations of
cronyism. Then, as I reported last month, the Norfolk landowner was arrested for
"carrying an offensive weapon" on his first visit to the Lords.

So it was entirely fitting that his introduction ceremony on Wednesday also
attracted controversy.

For Spy hears that one of Howard's two supporters was Lord Willoughby de Broke,
one of the Tory peers thrown out of the party last week for supporting UKIP.

"I'm sure Greville is going to be a piece of cake to deal with from now on,"
says one Tory insider drily.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              141 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 18, 2004

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 524 words


WHILE the nation has been cooing over the pictures this week of Prince William
kissing his grandmother the Queen, commentator Amanda Platell launched a savage
attack on William in her column in the New Statesman.

"He is a PR disaster and now the monarchy's greatest liability, " she storms.
"This is the heir to the throne (sic) who couldn't be bothered celebrating D-Day
to honour the very men who had fought for king and country. . . he treats it as
a big favour when he deigns to allow the cameras in briefly. . . at least his
father was prepared to accept the royal duties that come with privilege."

Platell also accuses "spoiled brat" William of being "noticeably absent from his
grandmother Frances Shand Kydd's bedside in the months leading up to her death -
even though he was studying nearby in Scotland".

FOLLOWING the Euro election success of the UK Independence Party, plans by party
bosses to take the fight to Brussels were briefly disrupted this week when their
official truck was set upon during a ferry crossing.

"The truck was covered in Ukip posters urging Tony Blair not to sign the EU
constitution, " Hickey is informed. "The driver left the truck and when they got
to Calais, he found that the posters had been ripped off. He found them stuffed
behind a load of rope in the corner."

The finger of suspicion is being pointed at certain fellow passengers. "There
were representatives from rival political parties on the crossing, as well as
plenty of French lorry drivers, " Hickey's man at the scene adds.

AS Tony Blair prepares to celebrate his 10th anniversary as Labour leader next
month, Hickey finds Gordon Brown's allies keener to mark it than most. "It's a
Labour party legend that Tony privately agreed with Gordon that he'd go after 10
years, allowing Gordon to take over, " says one Brownite. "We're keeping our
fingers crossed, although we'll probably have to wait a bit longer."

THREE days before Wimbledon starts, locals who rent rooms out to cashstrapped
players as well as linesmen and tennis fans are angry after the All England
Tennis Club removed all their names - except one - from its website, without
their prior knowledge. "It's typical of their high and mighty approach, " moans
one spurned SW19 landlady. "The club doesn't care about ordinary people trying
to make a little money for two weeks of the year because it makes so much money
itself." The club claims it was an "oversight" in not letting them know. "We
have had complaints that the list wasn't up to date, " said a spokesman. "We
don't inspect the properties so cannot give our recommendation.

We still mail the list to anyone who asks for it."

SIR JOHN Mortimer spent much of his time at the 20th birthday bash for publisher
Viking this week chatting to Valerie Grove, who will be writing his biography.
But since Rumpole Of The Bailey creator Sir John has already scribbled his
autobiographical Summer Of A Dormouse, will there be any revelations in it?
"There's nothing new. It's all been done, " Sir John told Hickey.

So no scandals? "Oh yes - scandals, scandals, scandals, " he added brightly.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              142 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 18, 2004

THE KEY ISSUE IS WHETHER EUROPE IS GOOD FOR US

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 139 words


SO the Government and the Tories have agreed on something at last.

They want to ignore the emergence of Ukip and focus on the 'key issues' - the
economy, public services and education - for a general election.

They have missed the point. The overwhelming 'key issue' is our membership of a
federalist international union that bleeds us of billions of pounds.

I'm no crank, but I do believe it is no longer enough to assume EU membership is
so overwhelmingly beneficial that no one needs to quantify by how much.

Ukip claim withdrawal would result in an 'Independence Dividend' of some GBP
30billion annually. That, surely, constitutes a key issue. It's time we had a
proper national debate to determine the truth.

I must thank Robert Kilroy-Silk for putting this subject on the agenda.

Will Patching, Reading

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              143 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 18, 2004

THE KEY ISSUE IS WHETHER EUROPE IS GOOD FOR US

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 156 words


SO the Government and the Tories have agreed on something at last.

They want to ignore the emergence of Ukip and focus on the 'key issues' - the
economy, public services and education - in preparation for a General Election
next year.

They have missed the point. The overwhelming 'key issue' is our membership of a
federalist international union that bleeds us of billions of pounds.

I'm no crank, but I do believe it is no longer enough to assume that EU
membership is so overwhelmingly beneficial that no one needs to quantify by how
much.

Ukip claim withdrawal from the EU would result in an 'Independence Dividend' of
some GBP 30 billion annually. That surely constitutes a key issue.

It's time we had a proper national debate to determine the truth about our
membership of the EU.

I would like to thank Robert Kilroy-Silk for putting this subject firmly on the
political agenda.

Will Patching, Reading

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              144 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 18, 2004

Chirac hits out at Blair EU tactics: PM accused of appeasing sceptics

BYLINE: Michael White and Ian Black in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 691 words


An irate President Jacques Chirac of France last night rounded on Tony Blair for
thwarting the ambitions of the EU to appease Eurosceptic opinion in Britain.

At the end of the first day of the crucial summit to try and finalise the EU's
draft constitution, Mr Chirac attacked Britain's unilateral position in
forthright terms. The UK, with its dogged determination to preserve its
so-called "red lines", was standing in the way of streamlining the EU's
decision-making process.

"The ambitions foreseen (for the constitution) are reduced, especially on tax
and social security, by the clear position of the United Kingdom. This will be a
real problem," he said.

His public denunciation of the British negotiating position came just a week
after he openly derided a plan jointly proposed at the G8 summit by Mr Blair and
President George Bush to encourage democracy in the Middle East.

To underline his displeasure with the British delegation, Mr Chirac last night
riposted by wielding his own veto against a proposal to make the British EU
commissioner, Chris Patten, the next president of the European commission.

"It would not be a good decision to have a candidate from a country that is not
participating in all EU policies," he said, despite the former Tory ex-cabinet
minister unexpectedly winning the endorsement of the conservative EPP bloc in
the European parliament,

Germany's chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, joined in the assault on the British
delegation's position on taxation and the powers of the European court, and also
used his power to block Mr Patten.

British officials shrugged off the dispute as the opening salvo in what promised
to be a drawn-out process of negotiation. "They are trying to test our
position," said one.

Downing Street's tough stance on the "red lines" has been devised partly by the
need to assuage Eurosceptic fears among British voters. Although Mr Blair
insists that nothing has changed as a result of last week's election results,
the surge of the anti-EU Ukip cannot be ignored.

London has insisted that it must have clarity in the constitutional text that
enshrines the historic national veto on all EU tax changes - avoiding
"harmonisation" being used to nibble away at it.

But No 10 also wants to allay fears that the charter of fundamental rights,
which Mr Blair initially wanted to have no legal status, will not be used by the
European court to undermine such sensitive domestic laws as secondary picketing
and strike ballots.

With a serious prospect that the talks will drift into tomorrow, even Mr Chirac
remained upbeat, despite the tough opening gambits.

"We have reached a stage where an agreement is quite possible," he said, before
some leaders, including Mr Blair, broke off to participate in the other,
possibly more popular, Europe: last night's Euro 2004 football matches on
television from Portugal.

The haggling on the first day of the twice-yearly summit saw stalemate over the
choice of commission president, with none of the rival aspirants emerging from
the pack.

Bertie Ahern, the Irish prime minister and summit host, said last night a list
of eight or nine candidates had been narrowed down to a shortlist of four or
five, but none commanded a majority. "At this stage I don't see any new
candidate emerging," he said. Talks resume this morning.

On the creation of a European public prosecutor and the acceptance of an EU
foreign minister, Britain has abandoned its objections. No UK objection was
raised to majority voting on foreign policy in some circumstances.

But officials remained confident that a deal would be reached today on the
so-called "emergency brake", a new mechanism to prevent ministers automatically
moving decision-making from unanimity to majority voting on social security and
some criminal justice procedures.

"We may just have to let people sleep on it," said one UK official who stressed
that the new text drafted by Ireland, which holds the EU's rotating presidency,
had "done a good job to get us where are we. People know our positions."

EU summit, page 13

Simon Heffer, page 20


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              145 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 18, 2004

Brighton may elect first Green MP: Party's hopes high after Euro election surge

BYLINE: Sarah Hall, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 701 words


The air in Brighton's north lanes fills with the scent of incense and the sound
of a didgeridoo player. Sun drenches the quaint maze of streets where shops
jostle to sell "oxygen sessions" and Thai massage; herbal tinctures and lotions;
vegan burgers, semi-precious gems, fair-trade goods and "recycled" clothes.

It is the sort of environmentally aware Utopia where a rainbow-clad gentleman
can state with a straight face: "Of course I vote Green. I'm an Old Yogi,
totally in touch with the planet and the animals. You wouldn't expect me to vote
anything else."

It is possible to mock the Green party as the recipient of anti-politics and
protest voters. But, as a hidden winner in last week's European elections, it is
rapidly emerging as a credible force.

While all the attention has been on Ukip, an ICM poll for the Guardian this week
suggests the Greens would poll the same share of the vote - 4% - as the extreme
Eurosceptic party at next year's anticipated general election.

Senior Labour party figures, who saw a quarter of their vote haemorrhage to the
Greens last Thursday, now fear the Greens will send their first MP to parliament
next spring - and that the most likely seat is the New Labour constituency of
Brighton Pavilion.

The Greens secured 20% of the vote throughout the three Brighton parliamentary
constituencies in the European elections, forcing Labour into third place by 34
votes.

That return follows the Greens' steady building of a power base on the council,
from one in 1999 to three in 2001, and six in last year's local elections. All
six councillors are based in wards in the Brighton Pavilion constituency where
the Green candidate, Keith Taylor, secured 9.3% of the vote in the last general
election - the highest polled by the Greens throughout Britain.

Councillor Taylor, who works for Caroline Lucas, the MEP returned in the south-
east with an increased majority, believes he is poised to make political
history. "Looking at the European election results, this is the best chance
we've ever had."

He argues that the share of the vote in Brighton Pavilion is now nearer to 27% -
based on a comparison with the way votes were cast in the 1999 European
elections, when the results of the three constituencies were published
separately and Brighton Pavilion secured 19%.

The Labour MP David Lepper, who secured 48% of the vote in the last election,
dismisses this as "a figure they've dreamed up", and Mr Taylor admits it's
"unscientific", but with Hove and Brighton Kemptown, the two other parliamentary
seats, only polling 11% each for the Greens in 1999, it seems fair to suggest
that more than one in five voters - and perhaps as many as one in four - voted
Green in Mr Lepper's seat in the European elections.

The Greens admit that some of their support last Thursday is down to anti-war
sentiment but argue their record locally and the high profile of Ms Lucas have
proved at least as positive in wooing voters. "I fully accept some of it will be
a protest vote" says Richard Mallender, a councillor for leafy Preston Park.
"But people here are used to voting Green." Mr Taylor, very much the
up-and-coming politician in sober single-breasted suit, collarless white linen
shirt and designer stubble, points to the Greens' record locally. They were the
party that ensured the local council blocked the fluoridisation of water; led
the suc cessful opposition to a carpark on the South Downs; ensured a school for
autistic children did not close; and were the only party to oppose a £1bn PFI
contract for an incinerator that will burn 250,000 tonnes of waste a year.
Wandering through the Lanes, it is clear that opposition to GM foods has won
them followers, as has their strong support for gay and lesbian rights, in a
constituency where at least 15% are gay, lesbian or bisexual.

Mr Lepper, the first Labour MP to be returned to Brighton Pavilion in the 1997
landslide, insists he is relaxed about the Green threat and that the real
opposition are the Tories, over whom he has a 9,600 majority. "The worry is that
the Greens, if they do reasonably well, could help let the Tories in."

guardian.co.uk/politics/green


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 18, 2004

Commentary: Beachhead for Ukip, amid a general lack of blue sky (thinking)

BYLINE: Michael White, in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 794 words


The spearhead battalion of the UK Independence party landed in Brussels
yesterday and immediately captured a strategic pavement outside cafes where EU
officials were trying to enjoy their lunch - and just a short walk from the
European summit.

Nigel Farage, the City metal broker who was Ukip's high profile MEP in the
pre-Kilroy days when there were just three of them, led colleagues on a
reconnaissance. Their mission: to sound out alliances among the 60 or so
Eurosceptics and outright Europhobes elected across the continent last week.

Far from undertaking this task in disguise, the Ukip team bought a truck with a
large poster in the back. It bore the slogan: "Don't Sign the Constitution,
Tony. Britain Says No" - and looked slightly battered after being attacked
during the ferry journey.

But in the Place Luxembourg all was calm. As usual during summits, the official
EU quarter was full of cops and barricades, but the locals are used to that. All
summits are now held here. Instead of converging on glamorous Cannes, hot Corfu,
or - last June - the blue Aegean, Europe's rulers met under a grey and blustery
sky. It is undoubtedly more efficient, but less fun.

Some 732 MEPs from 25 countries were elected last week, Cyprus and Estonia equal
in the sight of the draft EU constitution, if not that of God, whom some
countries (France, but not Poland) are trying to keep out of the final text on
secularist grounds.

All 25 have imposing wood panelled briefing rooms in the Justus Lipsius building
in the EU quarter, even tiny Slovenia in whose room the visiting Fleet Street
press corps was billeted yesterday.

Why? Because Slovenian briefings are few and small. "You won't even have to stop
typing," one reporter was assured. Thus did Slovenia enjoy its first sustained
exposure to the Sun and Daily Mail. By nightfall war had not been declared.

But it was a remote corner of the building, far from the gossip and buzz. The
Slovenian room did not feel like being at the "heart of Europe", more like being
in Slovenia.

"This is what it will be like for Britain all the time if Europe develops in
concentric circles excluding us," said one Euro-enthusiast bitterly.

Instead of the usual noisy bustle of the summit press room, with hundreds, if
not thousands, of foreign journalists in one enormous sports stadium or hangar,
the Brits were in air-conditioned and carpeted isolation, an atmosphere that
would not have disgraced an earnest UN symposium on African debt.

Nowhere was the painful gap between rhetoric and reality more evident than when
the 25 leaders upstairs in the Lustis Jipsius came to start horse-trading for
the vacant presidency of the European commission. If it's so important, how come
no man of destiny wants the job?

Chris Patten's name was put up by the European People's party (EPP), only to be
squashed by President Chirac, who is himself one step ahead of the police,
admittedly the French police, so there is not too much to worry about. Others
were proposed and found wanting.

In the nearby parliament building (it meets in both Brussels and Strasbourg) the
federalist EPP, to which Michael Howard's Tory MEPs are shamefacedly linked, are
now the biggest group with 278. The socialists have 199, the Liberals (loosely
defined) 67, and the Greens 41.

But it is the assorted sceps and phobes, Dutch, Swedes, Poles and others, that
Ukip was in town to court. Most are "souverainistes" who merely wish to
repatriate powers, more Howardites than Kilroyistas.

Mr Farage's enemies within Ukip accuse him of having had too much fun in
Brussels since he arrived in 1999. There is little chance that the Ukip trio
will be photographed with so much as a beer and three straws this week. But Mr
Farage is committed to efficiency.

Standing at his side yesterday, Graham Booth MEP, a 64-year-old Paignton
hotelier and grandfather of 10, told the Guardian he had been "even more
appalled by the extravagance, inefficiency and corruption in Brussels than I
expected" since succeeding to a vacant Ukip MEP-ship in 2002.

Mr Booth, who has a hotelier's line in Basil Fawlty jokes, admits to taking all
his pay and allowances - worth up to £250,000 a year, he said - though not to
making any money out of it himself.

Surely he had managed to do some good? Mr Booth admits he did save the Penzance
helicopter service to the Scillies from bankruptcy by making a one-minute speech
at midnight which just happened to be heard by the relevant commissioner.

As a result, the law on compensation for cancelled flights was changed to exempt
helicopters. "But if I was a pro-European MEP I would be very frustrated. They
have very little sway."

Simon Heffer, page 20

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

LEADING ARTICLE: MR BLAIR CANNOT SUSTAIN A POLICY OF FACING IN TWO DIRECTIONS AT
THE SAME TIME ON EUROPE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 672 words


ANY HOPES that the leaders of the European Union in Brussels would respond to
the disillusionment of their voters by presenting a fresh and united front for
change were shattered by the unseemly row over who should be the next president
of the Commission. Even before the leaders had gathered, Britain threw a spanner
in the works by declaring outright opposition to the candidate of France and
Germany, the Belgian Prime Minister, Guy Verhofstadt. The reason? He had been
too vocal a critic of the invasion of Iraq and organised a rival European
defence summit.

The shadow of Iraq still hangs over Europe, and, in particular, Britain's
relations with France and Germany. So, too, does Tony Blair's sudden decision to
commit himself to a referendum on the constitution now being discussed at the
summit in Brussels. This has forced Britain, isolated by its strong pro-American
stance over the war, to re-emphasise its divisions by appearing as bellicose,
and as nationalistic, as possible over the negotiations on the constitution.

We have little about which to be bellicose. The draft agreement published by the
convenor of the summit, the Irish Republic, has conceded most of the British
positions over its "red line" issues of tax and law. Mr Blair's friend Bertie
Ahern has leant over backwards to accommodate London's position on the key
points. Even over the question of the appointment of the president, there is a
strong hint of pre-arranged posturing between London and Dublin. From the
wreckage of the first rejected candidatures will come an acceptable late
entrant, perhaps Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, or even Mr Ahern himself.

The trouble is that this kind of messy horse-trading and backroom dealing is the
very thing that most puts off the already disenchanted European voters. If the
electorate feels disconnected with the decision-making process in Brussels, it
is largely because their political leaders use it for the very worst kind of
introverted deal-making.

The new constitution does not address these concerns. Far from it. Its central
concern is making the enlarged community more workable by increasing the amount
of majority voting, decreasing the number of commissioners for each country, and
raising the status of the Council of Ministers. Themes of greater democracy and
public participation are left as vague phrases, and all of the compromises being
worked in to accommodate Britain's red lines, Poland's Catholicism, and the
concern of the smaller states about representation on the Commission, take it
further away from anything that can inspire, or even reassure, the public.

Most of the leaders assembled in Brussels would probably agree with this
analysis. The new constitution, once seen as the means of reconnecting the Union
with the populace, is now regarded as an embarrassment that must be got over
before the institution can move ahead. To abandon it now would appear a defeat
with potentially disastrous consequences - all the more so because of last
week's negative voting. The dilemma for many is that, like it or not, they will
still have to present the constitution in at least half-a-dozen referendums
across the continent. Some might expect, or even hope, these referendums will
fail, but this will not absolve them from the duty of campaigning for a yes
vote.

It is a dilemma made all the worse for the British Prime Minister since he has,
quite unnecessarily, agreed to such a referendum in Britain. Caught between the
rising tide of Euroscepticism behind the United Kingdom Independence Party on
the one side, and the demands of his European colleagues, and his own rhetoric,
to seek to return to the centre of European politics on the other, Mr Blair is
trying desperately to face two directions at once - breathing nationalistic
fervour to the popular press at home, and charm and co-operation over the dinner
table in Brussels. It is a stance he cannot sustain once the constitution is
signed and the preparations for a referendum begin.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              148 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

THIS BRUSSELS SUMMIT WILL DO NOTHING TO OFFER THE PEOPLE A EUROPEAN VISION

BYLINE: ROBIN COOK

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1167 words


Words like deckchairs and Titanic involuntarily assemble themselves into a handy
sentence at the back of the mind as the leaders of Europe assemble for yet
another attempt to finalise a European constitution. Last weekend warning bells
rang all over Europe about the growing gulf between the European project and the
European population. Turnout slid throughout Europe and nationalist parties
scored depressing levels of support in the newest member states and some of the
most established.

We can pin responsibility for the elections that produced that reversal for
Europe on Giscard d'Estaing. As President of France, it was he who pushed for
direct elections to the European Parliament on the ground that it would connect
the people with Europe. Many benefits have flowed from a full-time parliament of
committed Europeans and I have nothing but respect for the tireless dedication
of its members. But reconciling the people to Europe has not been among the
achievements of the European Parliament.

Last Sunday a clear majority of Europeans did not bother to vote and the
overwhelming majority of those who did turn out voted on national rather than
European issues. Governments are smarting from the discovery that direct
elections to the European Parliament have been seized by their citizens as a
cost-free opportunity to give their domestic rulers a kicking. It is a salutary
lesson in the dangers of imposing democracy by summit.

There never was a popular demand for elections to a body of which most citizens
were only dimly aware, and the masses have not been persuaded to vote on M.
d'Estaing's principle that it would connect them to Europe. Turnout has dropped
with every successive election to the European Parliament in the 25 years since
they started.

In the wake of the latest low in turnout, a score of prime ministers and
attendant motorcades convene to debate a European constitution, the new proposal
by M. d'Estaing to connect the people with Europe. There are many sensible
improvements in the draft text. It has to be right to have a semi-permanent,
full-time president of the Council of Ministers, rather than the present idiocy
of a presidency that rotates every six months between prime ministers who are
expected to lead Europe in the spare time left over from running their country.

But obsessing over the rules and procedures that control the European
institutions is a cause of mounting excitement only to the true Brussels anorak.
We are not going to arouse the affection of the public for the European project
by triumphantly announcing we have reached agreement on merging the three
pillars in the European treaties into one common external personality.

The European Union is in danger of becoming a parody of itself as a perpetual
machine for the extrusion of fresh constitutional amendments. After the marathon
negotiations at Nice over the last treaty, many of us who had survived those
four days of constitutional wrangling wanted the European institutions to get
back in touch with the real world. Unfortunately, before the Nice Treaty had
even been ratified, the European Union then embarked on a programme that would
comprehensively rewrite it.

A systemic problem for the European Union is that its most high-profile moments
are grandiose summits in exclusive surroundings. The modern obsession with
security enhances their isolation. It is inconceivable now that the prime
ministers should mount bicycles and ride through the streets to lunch as they
did in Amsterdam half a dozen years ago. The visual message of the bulletins
from summits today is that Europe is a gathering of a political elite with no
obvious contact with ordinary citizens. .

The leaders of Europe will only revive support for Europe if they shift the
focus of their agenda to the issues that matter to the public who are not in the
council chamber. The irony that infuriates those of us who are committed to
Europe is that there is no shortage of popular angles to integration. A
continent without barriers has dramatically increased trade and freedom of
movement. Increased competition has slashed the cost to consumers of phone calls
and air travel. Decent standards of social and economic rights have given
working people redress against discrimination and excessive working hours. Most
valuable of all, nation states once rivals in war are irreversibly bound
together as economic partners.

A fiver to the first reader who hears any of these positive attributes of the
European project being articulated on a news bulletin from today's summit.
Instead we are being prepared by briefings for Tony Blair to emerge waving a
handful of red lines he has preserved. He may well succeed, not least because he
had got virtual agreement to them when the European Council last discussed them
six months ago.

But there is a fundamental problem in the public position he has taken up for
the negotiations. He did not pack his briefcase for Brussels determined to get a
good constitution for Europe. He left defiantly proclaiming his resolve to
defend Britain against the perceived threat of the constitution. By definition,
any success he scores in Brussels will be a victory not for Europe but over
Europe. I do not comprehend how he then intends to launch a visionary campaign
to persuade the public to vote positively for the Europe whose challenge he has
just defeated.

By contrast, Robert Kilroy-Silk's programme has the advantage of brutal
simplicity. When asked what he intended to do in the European Parliament he
gleefully responded: "Wreck it". Presumably he will preserve the freedom of
movement that enabled him to stay in the villa in Spain where he agreed with a
hereditary peer to stand for the party pledged to preserve British traditions
from all the insidious European customs they could see from the balcony.

Some of the comment on Sunday's results speculated that the rise of United
Kingdom Independence Party was a problem for the Conservative Party, but a plus
for Labour. Personally, I regard the strong showing of UKIP as a disaster for us
both, and Britain.

Blair's instinctive response to an electoral threat is not to challenge it, but
to triangulate it. This would be a serious mistake in response to UKIP. There is
not even the most slender common ground on which New Labour could erect one of
its favourite third ways, and we must not compromise with the national
chauvinism off which they feed.

When I met Anna Lindh, Sweden's foreign minister, for the last time before her
murder, she rebuked me for the growing nationalism of the British Government,
warning, "We will not beat the right by agreeing they have the right agenda." We
will not defeat the opponents of Europe by posing as even tougher than them in
resisting Brussels. We will only win by convincing the British people that
Europe is not a threat but an asset. That needs a dramatically different agenda
from the one on offer this week in Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              149 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

LETTER: PSYCHOLOGY OF LOUTS

BYLINE: JOHN HOLLAND

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 195 words


Sir: Raj Persaud (Opinion, 16 June) attributes England fan violence to a sense
of solidarity awakened by overzealous policing on the Algarve, and draws a
parallel with sentiment hostile to the European Union.

The evidence of TV footage is that the "fans" on Tuesday night were throwing
bottles and chairs about with some abandon before the arrival of police. Might
an excess of alcohol, too much money and too little civilising socialisation
have had something to do with it?

On Sunday night, after the England-France encounter, there were violent displays
of displeasure by England "supporters" in Billericay, when "drunken fans smashed
fences and cars" in the vicinity of a pub, according to the local Evening Echo.
There was more trouble in the High Street. Police were called in from several
adjacent towns to quell the trouble. Nobody was seriously hurt. No doubt such
low-level loutishness occurred in many other places than leafy Billericay.

Would a poll of these fans have shown them to be the groundswell of UKIP? I
doubt it. Come off it Raj. There is a limit to psychobabble.

JOHN HOLLAND

(Psychology teacher)

Billericay,

Essex

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              150 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

LETTER: YES TO FREE TRADE: NO TO FEDERAL EUROPE

BYLINE: TIM HINCHLIFFE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 46 words


Sir: I would have expressed my strong opposition to UKIP by voting for the
pro-Europe party; if only I could have figured out which one that was. Mind you,
politicians committed to abolishing themselves? The appeal is understandable.

TIM HINCHLIFFE

Beckenham, Kent

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              151 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

ROUTLEDGE: IN FOR THE KIL

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 84 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk, the media tart of the United Kingdom Independence Party, has
a remarkably thin skin for a politician.

He grabbed the limelight at his party's "victory" press conference after the
Euro-elections, and rounded on reporters whose questions he clearly thought were
impertinent.

His self-indulgent strutting merely invites greater attention. Not to his nutter
politics, but to the life of luxury that goes with being an MEP. Look out Kilroy
Bilko, the Mirror is watching you!

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              152 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

ROUTLEDGE: HAVE YOU GOT A PACT AGENDA, MR BLAIR?

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 491 words


BRITAIN is on the brink of a historic new deal for the future of Europe.

It looks very likely that the summit of national leaders in Brussels will reach
agreement on a constitution for the European Union that will satisfy Tony Blair
and Gordon Brown.

And anything that they can both agree on must be a big step forward for the
Labour government.

But a deal in the Belgian capital that safeguards UK interests on taxation,
social security, citizens' rights and other critical issues is just the start of
the game.

The Prime Minister has got to come back and sell this radical reform package to
the British people. It will be the most challenging task of his premiership.

Remember how he used to boast that he would place Britain "at the heart of
Europe"? That was before he was elected. Now, after more than seven years in
Downing Street, we are further away than ever from the mainstream of the EU.

For that, Blair must shoulder most of the blame. He has been too timid in his
enthusiasm for Europe, and too deferential in his dealings with the USA.

He marched in the wrong direction from the rest of Europe over Iraq, undermining
public trust in his government.

And, hey presto, he paid the price in last week's European elections.

Take no heed of New Labour's spin on the results of that poll. Right-wing
parties - the Tories and the UK Independence Party - won. They got nearly half
the votes cast, and the lion's share of the seats.

Many of those UKIP protest votes will return to the Tories - half, at least,
according to one Shadow Cabinet member I consulted. That would put Dracula
Howard on 38 per cent of the popular vote ahead of a spring 2005 general
election.

Not enough to win power with a working majority, but quite possibly enough to
evict Blair from Number 10.

Unless, of course, Blair revives the idea of a Lib-Lab pact, bringing Charles
Kennedy's Liberal Democrats into a coalition government.

That has always been his secret ambition, which had to be ditched when Labour
won two landslides in a row and did not need Paddy Ashdown's parliamentary
cannon fodder.

Kennedy would be a useful ally in the battle for a Yes vote in the promised
referendum on the Euro-constitution. But he will campaign for that anyway,
without a seat in the Cabinet.

Let's see if Blair has the guts to come out fighting on this issue, the one he
claims he wants to be remembered by. First, the constitution, then the
Euro-currency, to safeguard our independence from the United States.

He might just win back some respect if he shows he means business on a visionary
future for the EU.

Incidentally, the success of the Brussels summit rests largely on hard work
behind the scenes by the Irish government.

Ireland's six-month presidency of the EU has been a model of practical
diplomacy, unlike the Italian shambles that preceded it.

Dublin really does know how to work the Euro-levers.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              153 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - EUNITED IN THE FACE OF EXTREMISTS

BYLINE: M TUDOR POWER

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 98 words


THE UK Independence Party, led by ex-TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, won 16 per
cent of the vote in last week's European elections and Kilroy-Silk has vowed to
"wreck the European Parliament". Some readers are concerned at this while others
believe UKIP's success will be short-lived.

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk has the right ideas. The depressed state of Scotland's
fishing industry indicates just how much damage EU regulations have caused our
local economy. However, Kilroy-Silk has shot himself in the foot by spending so
much time in Spain.

M Tudor Power, Tarbert, Kintyre

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              154 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - EUNITED IN THE FACE OF EXTREMISTS

BYLINE: E DILLON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 144 words


THE UK Independence Party, led by ex-TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, won 16 per
cent of the vote in last week's European elections and Kilroy-Silk has vowed to
"wreck the European Parliament". Some readers are concerned at this while others
believe UKIP's success will be short-lived.

WITH anti-European fervour sweeping the nation, one might assume that the UK is
totally against the European Union.

However, most seats in the election were won by the three major political
parties who support the EU, albeit in various shades and degrees.

The UK is stronger, more united and more influential within the European Union.
Without the community of member-states, Europe would descend into a quagmire
which could eventually cultivate the divisions that split the continent in the
first half of the 20th century.

E Dillon, Salford, Gtr Manchester

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              155 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - EUNITED IN THE FACE OF EXTREMISTS

BYLINE: NICK AXFORD

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 87 words


THE UK Independence Party, led by ex-TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, won 16 per
cent of the vote in last week's European elections and Kilroy-Silk has vowed to
"wreck the European Parliament". Some readers are concerned at this while others
believe UKIP's success will be short-lived.

THOSE people who didn't vote in the European elections should be ashamed of
themselves. This doesn't teach Blair a lesson - it just makes it easy for the
extremists to gain more power.

Nick Axford, Heathfield, E Sussex

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              156 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - EUNITED IN THE FACE OF EXTREMISTS

BYLINE: MIKE BRAILSFORD

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 109 words


THE UK Independence Party, led by ex-TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, won 16 per
cent of the vote in last week's European elections and Kilroy-Silk has vowed to
"wreck the European Parliament". Some readers are concerned at this while others
believe UKIP's success will be short-lived.

HOW ironic it is that UKIP MEPs will take their seats in the European
Parliament, an organisation they are so against.

Britain would be much worse off without the EU, as we could soon discover if we
pulled out and prices went up without EU subsidies. People should stop pandering
to the lowest common denominator.

Mike Brailsford

Blackpool, Lancs

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              157 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - EUNITED IN THE FACE OF EXTREMISTS

BYLINE: T R MCEWAN

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 81 words


THE UK Independence Party, led by ex-TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, won 16 per
cent of the vote in last week's European elections and Kilroy-Silk has vowed to
"wreck the European Parliament". Some readers are concerned at this while others
believe UKIP's success will be short-lived.

WHY are people so concerned about the UKIP? The vote for the three major parties
was bigger, which shows most people still favour closer ties with Europe.

T R McEwan, Bognor Regis, W Sussex

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              158 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 18, 2004

WORRIED PM FEELS TREATY SQUEEZE

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, political editor

SECTION: COMMENTARY; OPINION

LENGTH: 261 words


TONY BLAIR is caught between a rock and a hard place.

If he votes No to the constitution today, a new ICM poll shows he will be
speaking up for three out of four of the British people he was elected to
represent.

But he will be damned by the EU for sabotaging a treaty which some - not all -
believe is the bedrock

for a European superstate.

If he signs the wretched document, which he never wanted, he will alienate not
just the Tories he once denounced as "phobes and sceptics" but many members of
his own party. If he vetoes the constitution it will be for one reason only -
because he now knows it is an obstacle to his place in history as a record
third-term Labour Prime Minister.

Until now Mr Blair has been able to dismiss anti-EU views as extreme.

Today, they are mainstream - thanks to this month's sensational European
election results. Any illusion that he could win a referendum on the euro or the
constitution has been demolished by the dramatic surge of support for quitting
the EU altogether.

If the PM does sign today, he knows some of his own MPs will publicly support
the UK Independence Party's risky new policy.

From the moment he puts pen to paper he would face a well-funded and relentless
campaign from all sections of society against the treaty and effectively against
Brussels itself.

That would run right up until the General Election whenever it was held.

And for the first time, moderate but worried voters who believe Europe is giving
them a raw deal would seize on the chance to have their say.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              159 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 18, 2004

ROBERT KILROY'S ELECTION AS AN UKIP MEP

BYLINE: Richard Littlejohn

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 205 words


KILROY'S election as a UKIP MEP hasn't only demonstrated that politicians are
hopelessly out of touch with the paying public.

It has also shown that the BBC were wrong to sack him for telling a few home
truths about Arab regimes.

Getting rid of Kilroy may have salved their Guardianista consciences but it was
a disservice to licence-payers, who enjoyed his show and pretty much agreed with
everything he said about the Arabs.

There's been gloating this week about how much money the cancellation of
Kilroy's contract has cost him.

But what's been overlooked is that the winding-up of his production company has
also cost 65 people their jobs.

Whatever you think of Kilroy, he's given the public what they want, paid a
shed-load of tax and created a lot of employment.

He may have bounced back and have earned enough over the years to survive his
sacking.

But what about those 65 people - young secretaries, runners, production staff -
who won't find it so easy to get another job?

As they sneer at "Little Englander" Kilroy and congratulate themselves on
sacking him, do the BBC grandees ever give a second thought to the other 65
people they threw on to the dole queue?

What do you think?


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              160 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

Tax and charter disputes stall Blair's progress

BYLINE: Philip Webster and Anthony Browne

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 932 words


European constitution talks have hit unexpected stumbling blocks, Philip Webster
and Anthony Browne report

Disputes over voting rights, tax and the charter on fundamental rights were
unresolved last night after European leaders began marathon talks to draw up a
new constitution.

Tony Blair's hopes of swift victories over taxation and the charter were dashed
as the leaders of France, Germany and Belgium all said that the Irish presidency
had gone too far in its latest eve-of-summit concessions.

They said that tax fraud and evasion should still be issues for majority voting,
in spite of Mr Blair's insistence that they must be covered by the veto -a
position that the Irish Government accepted.

They also said that Britain should lose its latest concession over the charter -
an understanding that a declaration stating that it would create no rights under
British law would be written into the treaty, rather than into the preamble,
which has no legal force.

Mr Blair, emboldened by progress on Britain's "red lines" in the latest Irish
draft, had gone into the meeting determined to push for further concessions on
tax, social security and the Charter of Fundamental Rights.

But the Irish had been so accommodating that it appeared that Mr Blair would
find it hard not to sign. He was soon to learn that Jacques Chirac, Gerhard
Schroder and Guy Verhofstadt, the Belgian Prime Minister, thought he had done
quite well enough.

The Cabinet, meeting yesterday morning before Mr Blair flew to the Belgian
capital, authorised him to do a deal if he considered it to be in Britain's best
interests.

The latest Irish proposal states that for decisions to be carried they would
need the support of 55 per cent of member states, which represents 65 per cent
of the population of the EU.

The previous plan would have required a threshold of 50 per cent of member
states, representing 60 per cent of the population. The new idea strengthens the
ability of smaller nations to block proposals, and was designed to overcome the
resistance of Warsaw.

But as yesterday's session started Marek Belka, the Polish Prime Minister, and
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, the Spanish Prime Minister, both pushed for the
population figure to rise slightly to two thirds.

Mr Belka, although insisting that he was acting with goodwill on the voting
system, said that the change did not yet go far enough. "But it is in the right
direction," he said.

Mr Blair was believed to be looking for further "clarification" on taxation. The
Irish draft dropped plans for measures on tax fraud and evasion to be subject to
majority voting after Britain let it be known that it would veto any deal if it
did not get its way on tax. However, Mr Blair was searching for a way of making
it plain that the issue of majority voting on any taxation matter could not be
reopened in future.

He was also seeking fresh safeguards to show that Britain's social security
system would not be compromised by decisions on migrant workers and benefits
being agreed by majority voting. Britain secured an "emergency brake" that would
allow any country that considered a measure to breach the principles of its own
system to ask it to be referred back to heads of government, where unanimous
voting applies.

But government lawyers were yesterday morning studying the text to see whether
the safeguard was watertight.

Similar safeguards were being sought over proposals to allow majority voting on
criminal justice. Mr Blair wanted to be able to say that he had secured a veto
in all but name in cases where there were any threat to ancient British rights,
such as habeas corpus.

The Irish draft gave Mr Blair most of what he wanted on the charter. It agreed
that a declaration that it would give no new legal rights -sought by the CBI
because of fears that it would breach British industrial laws such as those on
secondary picketing and secret ballots -should be included in the text of the
charter rather than a preamble, where it would not have had full legal effect.
But again a strengthening of the language was being sought.

Not all issues of division involved Britain.

The Netherlands yesterday reopened its dispute with Germany over the rules of
the stability pact that governs the eurozone. It wants to give the European
Commission powers to police countries that breach budget deficits. But the
Germans want to leave it to the member states.

Ireland's efforts to placate Britain pleased Mr Blair. But they caused
irritation among other delegations, who complained that Mr Blair was getting all
he asked for. But their desire to obstruct him was tempered by his promise of a
referendum of the British people on the constitution and therefore needs to be
able to show that he has won a worthy agreement to have any hope of succeeding.

Last night's session showed that leaders of old Europe believe that the Irish
have been too helpful. Mr Blair faces an assault from the Conservatives, who
have told him not to agree to the constitution. And if he needed any reminder of
the electoral threat to him, it was in Brussels in the shape of the UK
Independence Party, which won 12 seats in the European elections at the
weekend.Nigel Farage, a UKIP MEP who was first elected five years ago, stood in
the shadow of the European Parliament and told gathered journalists: "Seventy
per cent of people who voted in the elections supported parties opposed to the
constitution. The vast majority of the British public don't want it.

Nick Robinson, page 24 Letters, page 25


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              161 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

Heard the one about the emergency brake and the Polish voting weights?

BYLINE: Nick Robinson

SECTION: Features; 24

LENGTH: 741 words


Surely it wasn't meant to be like this. Surely this should have been the one to
boast about in the pub or save up to bore the grandchildren. I was there when
they signed the Constitution for a New Europe. No, really, I saw it with my own
eyes.

Isn't that what the hacks of the day said when they tumbled off the stage
coaches from Philadelphia holding in their inky hands six freshly-printed pages
which began with the words "We the people of the United States"?

This hack is instead stuck in an airless, lightless cubbyhole in a soulless
Brussels towerblock studying pictures of men getting in and out of cars. We are
not, you see, permitted to hear our leaders' deliberations.

I will munch on "single European sandwiches" (you know the sort -croissant
shaped bread and a slice of damp ham) while struggling to understand the
difference between a national veto, an emergency brake mechanism and a brake
augmented by enhanced co-operation. Then I will give up and write the odd wry
script line over those men and their cars before cutting to an image of a
poster-van carrying one word in huge letters -"NO". Underneath it will be the
letters UKIP. Is it any wonder that many watching will let out a cheer?

Before the UKIP sends me a membership form or Britain in Europe fires off a
complaint let me be clear. I am not taking sides in the great debate about the
future of Europe. I am old-fashioned about these things -I regard it as my duty
not to be partisan. My point is that it is nigh on impossible to convey the case
for this constitution without reverting to the most simplistic "in or out"
argument.

And it is not only me who has the problem. This week I was chatting to a
minister who had just come back from a meeting with his European counterparts.
He moaned that he had had to sit through several hours of rehearsed and
pointless statements. They been delivered entirely for the benefit of the
waiting media which wanted to know whether their man had stood up for their
country. "It's enough to have you signing up for UKIP," he declared.

Another -as it happens, ardently pro-European -minister predicted that the
constitution would never make it into law as some electorate somewhere would be
sure to scupper it in a referendum.

Finally, I attended a briefing by one of the Civil Service sherpas who has
plotted the route to this summit. He eloquently described how he and his bosses
had avoided the pitfalls. Then a colleague asked a killer question -"Why is this
good for Britain?" There was a pause. A telling pause. Naturally, an answer did
come.

It will, we were told, ensure that a Europe of 25 nations does not grind to a
halt. Yes, that's it. No wonder the field has been left free for those who
simply say "no".

The only people interested in the detail will all be gathered in Brussels bars
tonight to gossip about Polish voting weights and emergency brakes. Remind me to
tell you when I get home. You will wish you had been there.

Does Kilroy wish to lead the People's Revolt against Europe? I squashed into his
tiny, chaotic but electric news conference on the morning after his triumphant
night. It was there that I concluded that he could do it if he chose to. He
loves the camera and it loves him. Soundbites spring effortlessly from his lips.
He stands in contrast to the caricature Eurosceptic -he is suave while they are
naff; metropolitan while they are suburban; tanned not pale; and more at home in
a wine bar than the Rotary club. Remember that he is not simply a TV star turned
politician. He is something much more dangerous -a politician turned TV star who
has returned to politics and knows all the tricks. But is he ready to let the
UKIP take over his life and is it ready to let him?

Elections create panic among those whose jobs depend on voter approval. Panic
creates work for journalists. Thus I am sad to report an almost complete absence
of panic after these elections. This week's prime ministerial news conference
was so placid that we witnessed a first -Tony Blair briefly lost his train of
thought. In PMQs Labour MPs behaved as if they had just won. I can reveal why.

Labour had worried away about whether Mr Blair could, should and would stay
several weeks ago. As one Blairite put it to me: "We got our panic in first.

Pre-emptive panic is our new secret weapon."

Nick Robinson is political editor of ITV News nick.robinson@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

European elections

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 80 words


In a table of results for the European elections (June 15), the swing between
the parties was wrongly reported. The data, provided by a news agency, gave the
parties in the wrong order. The East Midlands result was, therefore, a 15.78 per
cent swing from Conservative to the UKIP, not from the UKIP to Conservative; the
London result was a 2.18 per cent swing from Labour to Conservative, and the
other figures were similarly incorrect. We apologise for the errors.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 17, 2004

Irish summit deal to keep tax out of EU constitution

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES; PAUL EASTHAM

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 709 words



BRITISH pressure to keep tax policy out of the controversial new EU Constitution
finally began to pay off last night.

The Irish government the holders of the EU presidency tabled a new draft treaty
excluding the tax proposals hours after Gordon Brown called them 'fatally
flawed'.

Downing Street welcomed the 11th-hour move as a 'step in the right direction'.

But with France and Germany still determined to fight for tax harmonisation, the
issue was far from settled last night as Europe's leaders began gathering in
Brussels for make- or- break negotiations on the treaty.

The development came as Tony Blair was told to say no to Europe in two different
ways by Michael Howard and Mr Brown.

In the Commons, the Tory leader's message was for the Premier to 'just say no'
to the proposed constitution.

Last night, in a keynote speech, the Chancellor forcefully made clear why Mr
Blair must say no to any moves aimed at undermining Britain's nonnegotiable 'red
lines'.

His attempt to stiffen the Prime Minister's resolve came at the Lord Mayor's
Banquet in City as he blasted the 'fatally flawed' European obsession with tax
harmonisation and federalism. The Chancellor warned there would be no retreat on
the 'red lines'.

By instinct far more eurosceptic than Mr Blair, he used the Mansion House
setpiece to warn that the Government will not sign up to anything that undercuts
his right to raise taxes.

He knows the Prime Minister faces massive pressure to give ground when he sits
down with his 24 fellow leaders later today.

Mr Blair has vowed to defend British interests. But it was evident from last
night's intervention that Mr Brown believes he needs the strongest public
backing.

The Chancellor said the EU must reform and be flexible to meet the challenges of
the global economy and 'must now reject the old, fatally flawed assumptions of
tax harmonisation and federalism'.

He insisted Europe has to avoid endorsing 'a federal-style fiscal policy which
would make the Commission, and not member states, responsible for fiscal
discipline'.

Warning that the constitution 'must recognise these new economic realities,' he
added: 'What are called our red lines that include economic red lines requiring
unanimity on tax decisions and no federal fiscal policy are not founded on dogma
as some allege, but on a concrete assessmentof Britain's national interest and
Britain's and Europe's economic needs as we meet the challenge of the global
economy.' Earlier, Mr Howard renewed his pledge to renegotiate Britain's entire
relationship with Europe.

In angry clashes at Prime Minister's Questions, he tried to put clear blue water
between the Tories and Labour by insisting the PM should reject the new treaty.

He said that is what most British people want following the European Parliament
elections at the weekend, when there was a huge vote for the United Kingdom
Independent Party.

Mr Blair hit back hard, accusing Mr Howard of running towards UKIP shouting: 'Me
too.' But even as he poured scorn on Mr Howard's eurosceptic demands, Mr Blair's
own spokesman tried to suggest the Premier is taking an extremely tough line in
the negotiations.

The EU Constitution is due to be agreed before the weekend, but there were
growing doubts last night in Brussels over whether a deal can be struck.

No 10 stressed that Mr Blair would veto the incorporation of the Charter of
Fundamental Rights if there was any suggestion it could massively extend the
right to strike in Britain.

Last night, the strong suspicion was that Downing Street is desperately hoping
the constitution will collapse at the talks. If that happens, there is virtually
no hope of resurrecting it, getting Mr Blair off a hook of his own making.

He has promised a British referendum on the constitution to take place after the
next General Election. In the wake of the European elections, it is now clear he
is likely to lose such a vote.

Mr Blair last night vetoed the man France and Germany had picked to succeed
Romano Prodi as European Commission president. Belgian premier Guy Verhofstadt
is an arch-federalist who wants to harmonise taxes and working hours across
Europe.

Comment Page 12

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GORDON BROWN: HE BRANDED THE EUROPEAN TAX PROPOSALS 'FATALLY FLAWED'

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              164 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 17, 2004

Putting the boot in while they're up

BYLINE: KEITH WATERHOUSE

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 635 words


SHORT of tearing up the cobblestones of the Grand Place and hurling them through
the cafE windows of Brussels, the Europhobes among us could not have expressed
their fear and loathing of the Euroctopus more vividly.

But we are talking about a creature which, like some spurned but persistent yet
slow-witted lover, cannot take No for an answer. Indeed, to Europhiles of a
sunny disposition, No means Yes - as we have seen often enough before. New
Labour's Patricia Hewitt, for instance, faced with a poll disaster on Sunday,
simply turned the election results on their head so that instead of coming
third, Improved New Labour came out top. Or would have done, except for a fluke
of circumstance.

As the old music hall ditty has it: 'With a ladder and some glasses, You could
see to Hackney Marshes, If it wasn't for the houses in between . . .'

Never shy of kicking a party when it's up, New Labour has been putting the boot
in ever since.

Having headlined its front page on Tuesday with 'The true face of a party which
wants us out of Europe - or 10 things the UKIP don't want you to know about
them' (Item: A retired bookie has given the party Pounds 500,000. I wonder what
odds he got?), the Independent followed it up yesterday with an equally gruesome
front page underlining Tony's claim that withdrawal would be ' extraordinary
foolishness'.

Item: There are more than 200 EU laws on the environment. (I believe it. But
note: this is a boast, not a complaint.) Wild birds in Britain are protected by
the EU birds directive. The Government would have to repeal hundreds of EU
directives in UK law. Withdrawal could trigger a loss of confidence in UK
economic prospects, possibly causing a run on the pound. (Note the qualifiers:
'could' and 'possibly'.) BUT it gets even gloomier.

The good news, for Eurofanatics, is that in their patronising way, they don't
believe it could ever happen. Sunday's results were a one-off, a blip, a freak,
cheered on by a B-list of showbiz has-beens. And they reduce Europe to a
single-issue question. (Some single issue - yesterday's Independent managed to
get it down to well over 30 questions.) But it won't happen the next time round.
No? We'll see. Much depends on what Tony brings home from Europe in his back
pocket. Just so long as he doesn't come home in Europe's back pocket.

His position, meanwhile, is that 'this is not a time for a change of direction
but it is time for a change of gear'. The Irish, for their part, have suggested
'emergency brakes'. How about trading in the old jalopy for a more roadworthy
model?

If only . . . 'Just by clinging to the chimbley, You could see acrorst to
Wembley, If it wasn't for the houses in between . . .'

I KNOW it was only a photo opportunity, but there was a picture a couple of days
ago of Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell placing an absolutely stupid bet on a
roulette table. She appears to have backed four or five numbers to win straight
up - no split bets at all - so that come what may, most of her stake was bound
to go down the pan.

If I knew what Ms Jowell seems to know about gambling - i.e.

nothing - I would seek expert advice from a Mississippi card sharp before
charging ahead with a completely unnecessary new Gambling Bill.

She's already had to backtrack on the prospect of a bank of fruit machines in
every chip shop and minicab office. But it isn't going to stop there.

There is very big money in gambling - for the big boys who control the tables.
Has Ms Jowell yet been to Las Vegas? She had better go, on one of those
factfinding freebies, before she puts her foot in it any further.

Oh, and Tessa - don't put all your money on zero, otherwise you'll be hitching a
lift back to the airport. Insofar as there is one, red is a safer bet.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              165 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 17, 2004

Howard sprang up and yelled at the moon

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 667 words



TEMPER, temper, little man, Nanny might have told Michael Howard yesterday.

The Conservative party leader, at the despatch box for the first time since the
UKIP poll surge, was sharp and antsy.

Here was a man with one of those boiled-brain hangovers struggling to work on a
crowded bus.

At Prime Minister's Questions he snarled and grrrred and blurted.

The late Frankie Howerd, confronted by such an outburst, would have sucked in
his breath, puckered his crepe-lined lips, and said, 'Oooh, missus.' Anger is
seldom seen in modern politics. We are urged to admire composure and moderation.
The politician who maintains an even tempo and tone, even at moments of the
greatest anxiety, is held to be the model example.

Much of the time that is probably a good tactic. Yesterday, though, Mr Howard
opted for something more exciting. He rushed his words and pointed his crooked
right index finger across the despatch box at the ever smooth Tony Blair.

The Prime Minister said that there was no point trying to renegotiate Britain's
position in Europe.

Mr Howard sprang up and yelled at the moon.

The Prime Minister mocked Mr Howard's belief in the principle of a National
Health Service. He said that Mr Howard wanted to 'wreck' the NHS. Mr Howard
cursed and scorned his critic, great ridges of hot vein and blood vessel riding
to the surface of his temples.

His eyes dived inwards towards his nose, squinting with fury. His sun-darkened
brow shook with vigorous disagreement as he listened to Mr Blair's sly claims.

He shook his fist, flung his elbows in the air and made his slim jowls wobble.
'If I was in the Prime Minister's place,' he yelled (cue lots of Labour
heckles), 'I would say no (to Europe's assaults on our sovereignty).

Which part of the word "no" doesn't the Prime Minister understand?' It was all
rather splendid. Not silly, not puerile, not ludicrous.

Labour laughed, slapping thighs and thinking that the Tory leader was making a
horse of himself.

To the contrary, it was good to see the Leader of the Opposition violent with
indignation at what is happening to British interests in Brussels. It was good
to see a politician responding to the pretty clear anger of millions of voters.

Mr Howard's vehemence was all the more striking given the impassive self-
satisfaction of Mr Blair.

The Prime Minister, in his answers, made clear that he thought it pointless to
cut up difficult with the EU in Britain's national interest.

'That,' he claimed, 'is a position that simply cannot be maintained.' PMQs had
started with two laughable moments. The first was the arrival of the Government
Chief Whip, Hilary Armstrong, in Noddyred, patent-shiny shoes and an allwhite
suit. It was all one could do not to shout out and ask her for an ice-cream.

The second moment of levity came with an early question from Dennis Turner (Lab,
Wolverhampton SE). Parliament has few old windbags to match Mr Turner.

The man is a museum piece from some bad, early 1970s sitcom.

UP HE got, dressed in a pea- green jacket, to much affectionate jocularity.

The House likes our Dennis, thinking him something of 'a character'. In fact he
is a bore.

He foghorned some pointless question about what 'the good folks of
Wolverhampton' wanted to hear from Mr Blair. 'I have good news for the Prime
Minister,' he said, oh, such a card. Tory MPs spoilt this moment by saying: 'Are
you about to resign, Dennis?' The Speaker amiably told Mr Turner to get on with
it. Mr Blair did his best to look amused.

Some will think me mean for attacking such a harmless old bumbler as Mr Turner.

At the end of the half-hour session he swaggered up to Speaker Martin and
Gorbals Mick gave him a thumbs-up. Mr Turner, in response, gave the Speaker a
clap on the back.

I dislike MPs treating the Speaker like some old social acquaintance.

It does neither Chair nor Mr Martin any favours. On balance, give me the anger
of Mr Howard any day.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              166 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 17, 2004

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 471 words



SIR Elton John is contemptuous about Joan Collins's association with the UKIP.
'It's for people of Joan Collins's age it's for 80-year-olds. It's just a flash
in the pan I don't mind being a European.' The fragrant Sir Elton shares a house
in the South of France with 'Lady John,' otherwise known as partner David
Furnish. It's thought they'd like to get married. The chances are the EU will
soon deem such weddings legal.

ACCORDING to a new book, Roosevelt and the Royals about America's President
Franklin Delano Roosevelt's dealings with King George VI the latter's wife,
Queen Elizabeth, who became the Queen Mother, declined to eat a hot dog with her
fingers. So it was cut up for her. We're also told FDR hated Joe Kennedy, father
of JFK. Knowing Kennedy was desperate to become ambassador to Britain and
wouldn't mind the embarrassment, Roosevelt ordered him to drop his trousers in
order to prove the old bootlegger was bowlegged.

America's 32nd President doesn't escape mockery himself. The book recounts how
his First Lady, Eleanor, took a lesbian lover, Lorena Hickok.

LARRY Hagman, pictured, formerly scheming oilman J.R Ewing in Dallas, says he
has a collection of 4,000 hats, the oddest of which are five cowboy Stetsons he
got from Ronald Reagan. 'I can't put them on because they're so small.

Ronald Reagan's head size was no bigger than a coffee saucer...'

HAVING deselected their sitting MP, Nick Hawkins, after he left his wife and
three children, Tories in Surrey Heath (majority 11,000) are about to start
selecting a successor. Among the candidates: ex-Foreign Secretary Lord Hurd's
handsome son, Nick, and The Times's Saturday editor, Michael Gove. Aberdonian Mr
Gove is considered 'persuasive with old grannies', while Mr Hurd (who recently
failed to get Kensington & Chelsea, which preferred the more seasoned Sir
Malcolm Rifkind) is a former banker who has acted as shadow minister Tim Yeo's
bag-carrier.

TORY MP Theresa May's new role as shadow secretary for family affairs she's
married without children, incidentally is something of a non-job. It has no
allotted time slot in the Commons for questions or debate. So why didn't
posh-sounding Mrs May (a former comprehensive schoolgirl) keep her dignity and
decamp to the back benches? A shadow non-job is better exposure-wise than no
shadow job.

PRINCE Abdullah of Jordan, uncle of King Abdullah II, made good use of his visit
to Washington for the state funeral of Ronald Reagan. He took 14 Domino pizzas
home with him to Amman.

TODAY purports to be 'Ladies Day' at Ascot. Traditionally the most popular day
of the Royal Meeting, it's now anything but ladylike. 'Lads' Day might be more
appropriate,' says a Royal Enclosure veteran, dismayed by the drunkenness and
bare flesh on view this week.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              167 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 17, 2004

LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 58 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk is in cloud-cuckoo land if he thinks his UK Independence
Party can be a threat to the Tories or Labour. They have nothing to offer other
than a wish to leave Europe - no plans on education, police, health or anything
else. At the next election, they'll barely cause a ripple.

LEO HOWARD, Thornton Cleveleys, Lancs.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              168 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

Britain wins fight to keep EU tax veto Deal on constitution now looks likely

BYLINE: By Toby Helm, George Jones and Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 757 words

EUROPEAN leaders appeared to have bowed to British demands on the EU
constitution last night by agreeing to retain national vetoes on tax and
strictly limit the power of the European Court to make judgments on the rights
of British citizens.

A new text tabled by the EU's Irish presidency markedly increased the chances of
a deal by tomorrow that would give the community a constitution for the first
time.

As Tony Blair and leaders of the 24 other EU nations prepared for two days of
haggling at a summit in Brussels starting today, it seemed that the Prime
Minister had all but secured his "red lines" before the negotiations began.

Insiders said Britain's remaining concerns that the constitution would open the
way for tax harmonisation and that the charter of fundamental rights would be
enforceable by the European Court of Justice seemed to have been addressed to Mr
Blair's satisfaction.

However, there was still a risk that other countries could demand the
reinstatement of those clauses.

The move followed a day in which Downing Street and Gordon Brown, the
Chancellor, made clear that Mr Blair would block any deal that failed to honour
all of Britain's demands - a move that would have thrown the EU into crisis.

While officials in Brussels said "nothing is agreed until everything is agreed",
they conceded that a deal was likely by tomorrow evening.

The new text was issued as Mr Brown prepared to make a speech to businessmen in
the City in which he attacked plans for tax harmonisation as "fatally flawed"
and said that they would inflict serious damage on the British and European
economies.

Mr Brown said that Europe must abandon its trade bloc mentality and develop more
up-to-date, flexible policies suited to the challenges of a global economy.

His fear had been that the wording of the constitution opened the way for the
use of majority voting on tax issues that could lead to tax harmonisation by the
back door.

Using unusually strident language, he said: "It is global Europe not trade bloc
Europe that is the way forward. A flexible, reforming Europe that thinks
globally must now reject the old, fatally flawed assumptions of tax
harmonisation and federalism."

Mr Brown said he rejected the arguments of those advocating withdrawal from the
EU, such as the United Kingdom Independence Party, which gained more than 16 per
cent of the vote and quadrupled the number of its seats to 12 in last week's
European elections.

The Government "must and will make the positive case for Britain in Europe", he
said.

Before the Irish text was tabled, British officials said they put the chances of
an agreement at "a little over fifty-fifty".

Downing Street had increased the pressure on the Irish presidency, saying it
remained concerned that the charter of fundamental rights could give new rights
to the EU over elements of industrial relations law. Changes to the text
answered this worry.

A summit last December to agree a deal on the constitution ended without
agreement after Poland and Spain on one side and Germany and France on the other
failed to agree over the proportion of votes allocated to each country in an
enlarged EU.

At Prime Minister's Questions yesterday Michael Howard, the Conservative leader,
called on Mr Blair to block a deal in Brussels.

He committed the Tories to embarking on a full-scale review of Britain's
relationship with the EU if they win the next election.

If the Irish text does give Mr Blair everything he wants, he will come under
greater pressure to cave in tomorrow in a separate argument over the choice of a
new president of the European Commission.

The French and Germans are backing Guy Verhofstadt, the Belgian prime minister.
But Mr Blair is strongly against his appointment as he is seen as too much a
product of the "integrationist stable" of EU leaders.

Mr Blair has not forgiven him for pushing for an autonomous EU military command
structure outside Nato at the height of the Iraq war.

Britain would prefer Antonio Vittorino, the Portuguese commissioner, who is in
charge of justice and home affairs in Brussels.

But EU sources said that, having won concessions from the French and Germans
over his red lines, Mr Blair might have to accept Mr Verhofstadt. France and
Germany had been in the vanguard of nations pushing for harmonisation of
corporation tax.

Mr Blair may also give ground over the president to raise his chances of gaining
a leading economic job in Brussels for Britain's new commissioner, who is likely
to be Peter Mandelson.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              169 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

We want to bring power back from EU, says Howard

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 583 words

MICHAEL Howard yesterday committed the Conservatives to embarking on a
full-scale review of Britain's relationship with the EU if he wins power at the
next election.

Days after the UK Independence Party's surprise success in the European
elections, the Conservative leader told MPs: "I do want to bring powers back
from Brussels."

During heated exchanges at Prime Minister's questions, Tony Blair accused Mr
Howard of "running towards the UKIP shouting 'me too' ".

On the eve of a summit of EU leaders in Brussels today to finalise a draft
European constitution, the biggest divide opened up between the two major
parties on Europe since Labour reversed its opposition to the EU in the
mid-1980s.

Mr Howard said last week's elections - in which the pro-European Labour and
Liberal Democrat parties received 37.5 per cent of the vote - showed that the
majority of British people wanted the Government to say "no" to the European
constitution.

He said the Government's so-called "red line" - issues such as defence, taxation
and social security on which Mr Blair had said he would not give up Britain's
veto - were "red herrings". The constitution transferred yet more power from
Britain to Brussels. Even if Mr Blair secured all his red lines it would still
involve giving up more than 20 vetoes, he said.

"If I were in Mr Blair's place I would say 'no'. The British people want you to
say 'no'. Which part of the word 'no' doesn't he understand?" Mr Howard said.

The Tory leader said Mr Blair should have taken the opportunity presented by the
constitution to renegotiate the terms of current EU treaties.

Conservative Party officials confirmed that a Tory government would seek to
bring fishing back under national control as well as withdrawing from the EU's
overseas aid system and the Social Chapter, which regulates working practices in
the EU.

Mr Howard has made clear that, if the rest of the EU did not agree to allowing
Britain to withdraw from the Common Fisheries Policy, a Conservative government
would introduce the necessary legislation to bring about "full national and
local control".

Mr Blair accused Mr Howard of being "disingenuous" in suggesting a Tory
government could renegotiate Britain's membership.

He said it could happen only with the agreement of all the 24 other members of
the EU. That would not happen and withdrawal from the EU would be a "disaster"
for the British economy.

"Mr Howard cannot renegotiate our terms of membership. The true choice is either
in or out," Mr Blair said.

During a debate on Europe, Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, said the Tory
approach "where you can have your cake and eat it" was a sham.

As a Tory government would not be able to get the unanimous approval of the
other 24 members, it would be pushed into accepting that Britain would have no
option but to withdraw from the EU when the negotiations failed.

Mr Straw said the new constitution would set out for the first time "a
streamlined procedure for any member wishing to leave the EU entirely".

He also played down concerns that the incorporation of a Charter of Fundamental
Rights into the constitutional treaty would prevent Britain from running its own
industrial relations policy.

"The text makes clear that the charter would create no new powers for the EU,
and that general rights such as the right to a strike are subject to national
laws and practices. We shall ensure that we have legal certainty in the way it
is interpreted," Mr Straw said.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              170 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

The euro cannot survive indefinitely

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 23

LENGTH: 89 words

SIR - As the owner of the UKIP battle bus referred to (Letters, June 16), I
would like to reply. The vehicle in question is actually an American-made
Plymouth Voyager van, which did valiant service in our campaign in the south-
east of England - where I happen to be the South East Counties Organiser for
UKIP. My other car is a left-hand drive Citroen. We have no problem with the E
in EU, just with the U. Does vehicle ownership now somehow determine political
affiliation?

Lt Cdr Stephen Harris (rtd)

Lyminster, W. Sussex

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              171 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 17, 2004

BUT BLAIR WON'T SCORN EU TREATY

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 275 words


TONY Blair arrives in Brussels today for tough talks with other EU leaders over
the controversial new treaty for Europe.

Pressure on the PM to play hardball was increased by Labour's poor showing in
the Euro-elections against a strong vote for the Conservatives and the UK
Independence Party, which both oppose the proposed constitution.

Mr Blair yesterday shrugged off demands from Tory leader Michael Howard simply
to say No to a deal.

Officials stressed Britain was holding out for more changes to the text - and
that agreement could still be scuppered by other countries' problems with it.

In another signal that the UK was up for a fight, a senior British official said
publicly for the first time that Britain opposed France and Germany's choice for
a Commission president to succeed Romano Prodi in November.

That decision, which is separate from the constitution, is due to be made by the
EU leaders tonight.

France and Germany have publicly backed Belgian PM Guy Verhofstadt, a fan of
European integration, and British bookies have made him odds-on favourite. But
the unnamed British official said: "The UK does not support Mr Verhofstadt for
the presidency."

Britain would prefer Portuguese socialist Antonio Vitorino, the EU's home
affairs commissioner.

The talks on the constitution are due to finish tomorrow - or they could end
early without agreement.

The constitution aims to consolidate the EU's various treaties and make the
organisation work more efficiently now it has expanded to 25 members.

Mr Blair yesterday pledged again to protect Britain's interests on tax, foreign
policy and defence.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              172 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 17, 2004

FEELING OF EXCLUSION LED PEOPLE TO OTHER PARTIES

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 147 words


THE three major parties are unanimous on one thing - that the votes registered
by Ukip are a 'blip', a one-off protest vote that has no chance of being
repeated at the general election. But, unless they restore credibility and
confidence in the democratic process, they might well be in for a nasty shock.

The political establishment has been rumbled as self-serving, arrogant and
out-of-touch.

All three parties stand guilty of steering this country towards a vision that
few people share and even fewer understand.

The spin given on the recent elections is that Iraq and Europe were the main
issues that sparked the voters' defection to Ukip and other 'fringe' parties. In
fact, it may have more to do with the feeling that people are being excluded
from the political process. Politicians beware, the Kilroy-Silk bandwagon is
rolling.

Peter Walker, by e-mail

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              173 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 17, 2004

FEELING OF EXCLUSION LED PEOPLE TO OTHER PARTIES

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 167 words


THE three major parties are unanimous on one thing - that the v otes registered
by Ukip are a 'blip', a one-off protest vote that has no chance of being
repeated at the general election.

But unless they restore credibility and confidence in the democratic process,
they might well be in for a nasty shock.

The political establishment has been rumbled as self-serving, arrogant and
out-of-touch.

All three parties stand guilty of steering this country towards a v ision that
few people share and even fewer understand.

The spin given on the recent elections is that Iraq and Europe w ere the main
issues that sparked the voters' defection to Ukip and other fringe parties.

In fact, it may have more to do w ith the feeling that people are being excluded
from the political process.

So politicians beware - the Kilroy-Silk bandwagon is rolling, and the longer
that people feel excluded, the more the momentum will build.

Ignore it at your peril!

Peter Walker, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              174 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 17, 2004

Comment & Analysis: A change of leadership is now in Labour's interests: A
bloodless succession is possible, but Blair seems determined to cling on

BYLINE: Seumas Milne

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1166 words


Tony Blair's response this week to Labour's worst election results since the
first world war has been a characteristic display of self-righteous defiance.
"No politician can afford to be deaf to the voice of the electorate," he
declared, but then went on to reject every message the voters had sent him,
whether from right or left. No, he will not apologise for the decision to invade
and occupy Iraq - he will be "shown to be right" about that and the majority of
the people wrong.

Nor will the prime minister reconsider his creeping privatisation of public
services - now is "not the time to change direction", he insisted, "but to
change gear" and press on "further and faster" with the divisive "reforms" that
are so unpopular in his own party and beyond. And when it came to Europe, his
main sop to the UK Independence party's nationalist advance seemed to be a
pledge to resist yet more fiercely any Brussels-inspired improvement to British
employment rights.

This is a prime minister whose European project is in ruins, who is irreversibly
tainted by the deception and disaster of the Iraq war and whose core voters
haemorrhaged at an unprecedented rate last week into anti-government protest or
abstention. His personal poll ratings have collapsed, 60% of the electorate want
him to go before the next general election and a string of opinion polls have
shown that Labour would attract significantly more support with Gordon Brown as
its leader than if Tony Blair clings on to power.

But the outcome of Labour's local and Euro-election collapse has paradoxically
made a change of leadership this side of the election less, rather than more,
likely. Ukip, the respectable face of the British National party, has pulled
Blair's chestnuts from the fire, at least for the short term. By taking more
than twice as many votes from the Tories as from Labour, Ukip has left Michael
Howard's Conservative party looking even less of a threat to a Labour third term
than it did a month ago. Meanwhile, New Labour MPs have been consoling
themselves with the thought that after the cosmetic handover of power to a new
Iraqi administration at the end of this month and the prospect of some sort of
elections six months down the line, even Iraq will start to lose its political
sting.

These are dangerous delusions. The enthronement of a puppet Iraqi government
headed by a longtime CIA operative and protected by 140,000 American soldiers is
scarcely likely to convince most Iraqis that the occupation is coming to an end
or draw the teeth of the armed resistance - any more than the staging of
elections in which the candidates are selected by the occupiers. Britain is
poised to send up to 3,000 more troops, who will garrison the Shia city of Najaf
- focus of Moqtada al-Sadr's uprising - and can expect a level of attacks
British soldiers have been spared in Basra. If the British army were to start
taking casualties at anything like the rate the Americans have further north,
the occupation would become even more of a running sore for Blair than it is
already.

In Britain, 2,500 miles from the killings, kidnappings and torture, Iraq
naturally doesn't register as much of a political concern in people's daily
lives. But it does continue to shape the political environment, is by far the
most important factor in the collapse of confidence in the prime minister and
amplifies hostility to New Labour across the political spectrum. Of course, a
good number of those who voted Liberal Democrat, Green or Respect in protest
against the war last Thursday can be expected to back Labour in a general
election under a first-past-the-post system. But among a significant minority of
Labour supporters, the alienation over the Iraq war is so great that they will
never vote for the party again while a man some regard as a war criminal remains
its leader. The five-month-old anti-war group Respect took 5% of Euro-election
votes in London, 7% in Birmingham - mostly from Labour - and more than 20% in
areas with a large Muslim population, such as Tower Hamlets in east London,
where it topped the poll. With the established party system breaking down and
increasingly volatile voters turning their backs on the political class, Labour
MPs should consider whether they can really rely on Ukip and traditional
loyalties to hold the line next time.

However hard Blair tries to shift the agenda back to domestic policy, there can
be no moving on from Iraq while he is in charge. Despite Labour's apparent mood
of post-election complacency, the arguments for a change of leadership this side
of the general election are more powerful than ever. First, in the interests of
global peace, those political leaders who launched an illegal war against Iraq
need to be seen to pay a political price for it - not least to discourage such
acts of military aggression in future. Second, from a democratic point of view,
it is necessary for politicians to be held to account for the kind of calculated
defiance of public opinion over a decisive area of state policy that took place
last March over Iraq. And a new leadership would allow a genuine shift of
British policy over the occupation.

But it should also be clear that a change of leader before the election is in
the interests of Labour as a party. If Blair insists on limping on as prime
minister through the next election, he will inevitably be seen as a lame-duck
caretaker for the long-heralded Brown premiership, his tarnished reputation
sapping Labour support, masking government successes and sowing the seeds of
disintegration and defeat. The damage to the party will continue, with the
likelihood of a smaller majority, or none at all. On the other hand, it isn't
necessary to entertain any overheated expectations about a Brown administration
to realise that it would have to be politically distinct from its predecessor -
it would simply not be possible for a Labour prime minister to be to the right
of Tony Blair. And the political significance of Ken Livingstone's re-election
as London mayor, Labour's only success last Thursday, cannot have been lost even
on his long-time sparring partner Brown.

There are a multiplicity of ways in which Blair could orchestrate a face-saving
exit in the next six months. But his overweening self-belief suggests there is
little chance of that. With Labour's rules rigged against an open party
challenge, only Labour MPs and the cabinet are in practice able to call time on
his leadership. But Labour has no tradition of deposing its leaders, who have in
any case rarely lasted long enough in government for the issue to arise.

Brown himself is congenitally cautious, and even those ministers and MPs who
accept the need for change shrink from the collateral damage they fear would be
caused by a direct challenge. That would of course be largely up to them. But it
now looks as if Blair's ego will be the main obstacle to a bloodless succession.

s.milne@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              175 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 17, 2004

Sketch: Blair off the ropes with knock-about knock-out

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 583 words


On Tuesday, at his monthly press conference, the prime minister looked wan,
tired, and crumpled. He's normally an immaculate dresser, but his shirt collar
had got caught up with his jacket.

His eyes were wild, and his answers rambled around. It would be an exaggeration
to say he looked as if he were about to ask a stranger for his bus fare home,
but not much of one. He resembled a boxer who's not sure which corner of the
ring he ought to return to when the bell rings.

Then yesterday he was right back on form. I don't know what his trainers had
rubbed into his gumshield, but they should give some to the England football
team today.

It's not that he said anything memorable, important or even true. It was the way
he said it, the flailing arms, the total ferocity of his attack.

Poor Michael Howard must have wondered what he had done wrong. He started off
quite well. The government's "red lines" over the European constitution were, in
fact, "red herrings". A moribund if not a dead metaphor, but it made the point.

Then he went on, "if I were in his place. . ." - and Labour MPs, who have been
badly frightened by last week's results and want something to cheer and jeer
about, duly cheered and jeered. As if he would ever be in Tony Blair's place! As
ludicrous as imagining that Lenny Henry will one day lift Lennox Lewis's crown!

Mr Blair came out at him like Jake La Motta, only more psychotic. "It's about
time you showed a bit of proper leadership and instead of running towards the UK
Independence party shouting 'me too!' that you actually stood up to them!"

Piffle, of course, but for that reason unanswerable. Mr Howard tried again. "In
your place I would say no. The British people want you to say no. What part of
the word no don't you understand?"

Then the Tory leader got his shiny shorts in a twist. It was actually quite a
well-phrased assault, but it did disappear up its own terminological backside.

"Because other member states want to do things which we don't want to do, why
can't we say to them: 'we don't want to stop you doing what you want to do, as
long as you don't make us do what we don't want to do'?"

Mr Blair thumped him aside with a quote from "a former deputy leader of your
party" who had said there could never be any renegotiation of the EU treaty.

The fact that the former deputy leader referred to was Michael Heseltine was
unmentioned, possibly because many Tories have the same view of Lord Heseltine
as fundamental Christians do of Judas: when it mattered, he was on the wrong
side.

Mr Blair roared back: "You cannot renegotiate our terms of membership. The true
choice is: in, or out."

By this time Labour MPs were hysterical. The man who was dragging them to
inevitable defeat a week ago was now their champion of champions.

Mr Howard tried again, on the NHS, the burden of his complaint being why is it
so dreadful?

"I read his speech," Rocky Balblair replied. "He says he came back into
frontline politics because of his anger at the state of the NHS.

"Well - he must have been incandescent when he was in government!

"He was so angry, it left him speechless, because he never raised the state of
the NHS!"

By this time the crowd was on its feet, cheering and yelling as the referee
hoisted Mr Blair's arm over his head, and a large, vulgar belt was hooked round
his shorts.

Is it utterly unimportant and entirely meaningless? Of course. But it didn't
half cheer up the ranks.


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              176 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 17, 2004

EU summit: Blair plays it canny in high stakes game: For all the European
community's leaders the next two days will present a challenge, but for
Britain's PM the issue could be make or break

BYLINE: Ian Black in Brussels and Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 889 words


Tony Blair last night talked tough in defence of Britain's negotiating "red
lines" in advance of today's EU summit debate on the draft European constitution
whose outcome could tip the prime minister's career into terminal decline or
provide him with a resounding political recovery.

All 25 EU leaders face difficult negotiations in Brussels between this morning
and tomorrow night, or Saturday, as they seek to agree a new constitution and a
replacement for Romano Prodi as president of the European commission.

With already high stakes raised by unprecedented mass apathy and Eurosceptic
gains in last week's European elections, Bertie Ahern, the Irish prime minister,
yesterday appealed to colleagues to show "themselves and the world" that a union
of 25 countries could work. For Mr Blair, the stakes are as high as for any of
his beleaguered colleagues. In boisterous exchanges at Westminster, Michael
Howard, the Conservative leader, urged him "to do what the majority of the
British people want you to do and say 'no' to the European constitution".

Mr Blair countered by insisting that a deal, if one can be struck, was in
Britain's national interest and by taunting Mr Howard with the task of showing
real leadership instead of "running towards Ukip shouting 'Me too'."

Reports from Brussels last night pointed to a deal which would protect key
British "red lines", clearing the path for agreement on the constitution.

For both men, the tactical gamble is huge. Mr Blair is determined to show that
the real choice is to be in Europe or to leave it. Mr Howard insists there is a
middle way between Ukip's withdrawal policy and what he dismissed as Mr Blair's
"red lines - red herrings." Last night the Irish taoiseach, holder of the EU's
rotating presidency, submitted compromise proposals on the voting issue, pa rt
of two days of what promises to be hard bargaining in the Belgian capital.

Overall, though, the mood was upbeat, as officials underlined the urgent need
for success after Silvio Berlusconi's failure to broker a deal last December and
the display of hostility to incumbent governments and the EU in the
parliamentary polls.

But there was no sign of a deal on a successor to the lacklustre Mr Prodi, with
apparent deadlock suggesting that the choice may have to be put off until after
the constitution has been finalised.

Heavyweights France and Germany are backing Guy Verhofstadt, the Belgian prime
minister, but he is too federalist and anti-American for Britain, Italy, Poland
and the Nordic countries.

Jean-Claude Juncker, the veteran Luxembourg prime minister, is probably
acceptable to a majority of countries. He has repeatedly ruled himself out, but
Christian Democrat and Green MEPs last night urged him to change his mind.

The UK opposes Mr Verhofstadt, said a senior British official in Brussels, but
Mr Blair wanted a "serious discussion of a range of candidates." The official
denied that this was a tactical position that might change. No 10 refused to
confirm that position. Ladbrokes were last night offering odds of 6/4 against Mr
Verhofstadt and 3/1 against Mr Juncker.

Irish diplomats said Mr Ahern would be putting forward just one name for the
euros 1m (£650,000) a year job when the matter is discussed over dinner tonight.
Mr Ahern's greatest difficulty will be in persuading Spain and Poland to
surrender the disproportionately generous and complex voting powers they won at
the Nice summit four years ago.

The emerging solution is a simpler "double majority" system requiring 55% of the
EU's member states and a negotiable 65% of their 450 million-strong population
for a decision to pass the council of ministers.

Diplomats said one key question is whether the Polish prime minister, Marek
Belka, is in a strong enough domestic position to swallow a compromise.

The constitution is designed to streamline and simplify existing treaties and
bring EU institutions closer to disenchanted citizens. Small countries like
Austria and Finland and most of the 10 new members are opposed to plans to scale
down the now 25-strong commission. The likely compromise is a period of
transition which will see it with 18 members - but only from 2014.

The Netherlands is demanding greater powers for the commission in policing
eurozone budget deficits but this is opposed by France and Germany, who keep
breaching the Maastricht treaty limits. The constitution will give the EU a
permanent term president, instead of the current six-month rotating presidency,
and a foreign minister to give the union greater clout on the world stage.

It will allow majority decision-making to avoid gridlock and give parliament
wider powers. Agreement is also needed on a reference to God or Christian values
in the constitution's preamble - an issue on which Britain is agnostic.

"It is inevitable and natural that every delegation will in the final
negotiations continue to argue for its own preferred outcomes," Mr Ahern said.
"But it is vital that we demonstrate that our enlarged union can and will
continue to overcome challenges and achieve the objectives it sets itself." And
failure to agree a constitution at the summit would send a "very bad signal", Mr
Prodi warned.

Charles Grant, page 22

Leader comment, page 23

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              177 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 17, 2004

Policy & Politics: Threat to curb pollsters after overestimate of Ukip

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 640 words


The notoriously back-biting world of polling found itself under scrutiny
yesterday when Tony Blair floated the idea of a cross-party commission to
regulate Britain's myriad pollsters.

Amid growing scrutiny of polling - after mixed results in the run-up to last
week's "Super Thursday" elections - the prime minister told MPs that the Labour
chairman Ian McCartney would consider opening talks with the other main parties.

Mr Blair's remarks came after criticism of an exit poll last weekend by the
internet company YouGov which overestimated support for the United Kingdom
Independence party (Ukip).

The poll, which had a strong influence on the political debate when it was
released on Sunday night, forecast that Ukip would secure 20% of the vote in the
European parliamentary elections and win 18 seats. The poll was carried out on
polling day. Ukip won 16.1% of the vote which translated into 12 seats.

Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrat campaign guru, last night welcomed the idea
of cross-party talks. He said: "We believe that internet polling has
consistently overstated the Conservatives and understated the Liberal Democrats.
We believe that may have had a decisive influence on the London mayoral
contest."

Barry Sheerman, the Labour MP for Huddersfield who raised the issue with the
prime minister yesterday, said: "The online poll organisations are a worry
because they do not seem to show how they balance their polling methods - only
50% of people are online, how do they account for the other 50%? What is the
mechanism, is it trustworthy?"

YouGov's defenders say that the company had a good record in the run-up to the
"Super Thursday" elections. In a poll, published on the eve of the London
mayoral vote, YouGov predicted the result almost perfectly. Ken Livingstone and
Steve Norris, the Labour and Conservative candidates, were given 55% and 45%
respectively - they won 55.39% and 44.61%.

While YouGov inflated Ukip's vote in the last poll, it has been credited with
predicting the rise of the party long before other pollsters. In a poll
published in the Daily Telegraph, it predicted that Ukip would secure third
place in the European elections with 18% of the vote among those most likely to
vote. The party fell to fourth place, with 14% of the vote, among all voters.

The poll had a dramatic impact and led to intense media interest in Ukip. Kevin
Barron, the Labour MP for Rother Valley who recently signed a commons motion
calling for greater regulation of polling organisations, voiced the fear that
the strong interest in the YouGov poll may have influenced the election.

"I think there are occasions when the media lead elections," he said. "This may
have been one of those occasions."

Stephan Shakespeare, the director of opinion research at YouGov, last night
admitted that he overestimated the Ukip vote in his final poll. But he said:
"Our poll (for the Daily Telegraph on May 24) got it better than the only other
company that did it which was Populus for the Times. They had Labour in first
and Ukip in fourth which was the wrong story. Our on-the-day poll was more or
less the same. We overestimated Ukip slightly, we underestimated the
Conservatives slightly and the rest was about right. But it was still better
than anyone else"

The debate was kicked off when Mr Sheerman raised concerns about new polling
companies with the prime minister.

He is particularly concerned about the tickbox.net polling organisation which
pledges to give "detailed results and analysis within 48 hours".

In a recent advertisment tickbox.net said: "Not only are we the most
cost-effective service, but our results are presented in such a way that you
don't have to waste hours sifting through information. In just two days your
story can be out there gaining coverage."


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              178 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 17, 2004

G2: Shortcuts: Time off: Welcome to Costa Ukip

BYLINE: Stuart Jeffries

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 356 words


Why is Robert Kilroy-Silk so orange? Is it just my telly? "It's an absurd
question," says Mark Croucher, press officer at the UK Independence Party. But
is it? Kilroy-Silk looks as though he has been basking in something more than
the triumph of being elected the Ukip MEP for the East Midlands. Maybe he got
his glow from a bottle, or from one of the many salons that now grace the middle
English heartland beloved of silky Robert and his cohorts; more likely, however,
is that he gets it from basking at his second home on the Costa del Sol.

Where do Ukip members go for the summer? Whitley Bay? Please. Grange-over-Sands?
Have a word with yourself. It is true that Ukip MEP Jeffrey Titford lives in
Frinton-on-Sea, that sedate Essex resort (he's an undertaker there), but it is a
truth not universally acknowledged that many of the leading lights of the
Eurosceptic party spend a great deal of time on the continent.

Kilroy-Silk has a £2m bolthole on a 100-acre estate near Marbella, Joan
Collins's Riviera pad enables her to vie with Brigitte Bardot for the title of
queen of St Tropez, and MEP Nigel Farage spends a great deal of time in Hamburg.
"Nigel's wife is German and, yes, Robert does have a place in Spain, but why
shouldn't they? It's like asking how a Scottish MP can have a place in London.
Why not?" says Mark Croucher, prickling nicely. "We don't want to be enemies
with Europe, we just don't want to be part of it." Fair enough, but if Ukip
doesn't want to be part of Europe, surely its supporters should impose a
self-denying ordinance about owning vast tranches of its sunniest bits.

Something must be done to redress the balance. Is it really beyond the wit of
media strategist Max Clifford to get Ukip devotee Edward Fox pictured on the
front at Skegness in a knotted handkerchief and string vest, offering a
similarly attired Collins a dollop of his proverbial 99? Admittedly, there is a
picture of Kilroy-Silk forcing a smile as he toasts his victory with a glass of
English wine, but I read the wild look in his eyes as saying: "Christ, Rioja's
going to taste gorgeous after this filth."


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              179 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

TORIES' DEMANDS FOR BLOCK ON EU CONSTITUTION ARE FOOLISH, BLAIR SAYS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR AND STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Tony Blair
may be able to secure all the red lines' he is demanding for the UK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 809 words


TONY BLAIR HAS dismissed as "foolish", Tory demands for him to block the
proposed European Union constitution at a crucial summit of EU leaders in
Brussels today.

A new draft tabled by the EU's Irish presidency last night offered two important
concessions to Mr Blair, and sweeteners for countries including Germany, Spain
and Poland. EU officials were increasingly optimistic that agreement could be
reached at the summit.

The latest blueprint scraps proposals to introduce majority voting in limited
areas of taxation policy, opposed by Britain. It also suggests writing a new
clause into the text of a controversial Charter of Fundamental Rights,
guaranteeing that no new legal obligations are created. Britain was worried the
charter could have jeopardised Britain's industrial relations laws, including
curbs on the right to strike. The concessions should enable Mr Blair to secure
his much-vaunted "red lines".

The summit's most likely stumbling block is over the voting power of member
states in the Council of Ministers, the EU's main decision-making body, which
led to the collapse of the EU summit last December. But the latest draft offered
a compromise to make it easier for nations such as Poland and Spain to block
measures they dislike.

Originally, EU legislation would have needed the backing of half of all member
states representing 60 per cent of the EU's population. Under the new Irish
plan, those thresholds would be raised to 55 per cent and 65 per cent
respectively, and the three biggest nations could not block a measure alone. In
a move to reasssure Poland, the Irish suggested a new mechanism under which
countries could appeal if they find themselves in a worse position than under
the present system.

Last night, Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, warned that the treaty must recognise
"new economic realities". He said Britain's opposition to majority voting on tax
and to the European Commission taking charge of fiscal policy were "not founded
on dogma as some allege but on a concrete assessment of Britain's national
interest and Britain and Europe's economic needs as we meet the challenges of
the global economy".

He added: "Europe must avoid endorsing a federal-style fiscal policy which would
make the commission and not member states responsible for fiscal discipline.
That is why, while tackling unfair tax competition, Europe must avoid the tax
harmonisation that would damage our competitive position."

Fears among pro-Europeans that the strong support for Eurosceptic parties would
make it difficult for Mr Blair to win the promised referendum on the
constitution were allayed by a NOP poll for the Britain in Europe group. It
found that almost half of people have not made up their minds or are open to
persuasion on how to vote.

Twenty-eight per cent would vote "no", twice as many were certain to vote "yes",
and a further 17 per cent would probably vote "no" but could be persuaded
otherwise. Lucy Powell, the group's campaign director, said: "There is still all
to play for in the public debate on the proposed treaty. Most people in Britain
have not made up their minds or are still open to persuasion. Indeed, most do
not even know what the referendum is about." Yesterday Mr Blair clashed with
Michael Howard, the Tory leader, who dismissed his "red lines" as "red
herrings". He told Mr Blair during Prime Minister's questions: "Even if you get
all your red lines it involves giving up more than 20 of our vetoes. If I were
in your place, I would say no'. The British people want you to say no'. Which
part of the word no' don't you understand?"

Mr Blair said the constitution would allow small groups of EU states to press
ahead with further integration, in line with Tory policy. He said: "The
provisions for enhanced co-operation in this treaty precisely allow other people
to go ahead if they wish to do so, which is why it would be particularly foolish
for us to veto the entire treaty."

He told Mr Howard: "It's about time you showed a bit of proper leadership and
instead of running towards the UK Independence Party (UKIP) shouting me too',
that you actually stood up with them and took on the argument."

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, praised yesterday's front page of The
Independent highlighting the cost of withdrawing from the EU, as UKIP demands.
He told the Commons: "It means being obliged to apply EU legislation but having
no say in deciding it. It means contributing to the EU budget but getting almost
nothing back. Norway alone is paying EUR230m (pounds 151m) year to finance EU
enlargement.

"It means British exporters, who can today trade free of obstacles throughout
Europe, would have to fill out a 12-page form every time they wanted to send
their products across the Channel, extra red tape, extra costs and extra
delays."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              180 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

NEVER MIND THE ALGARVE, THE HOOLIGANS WERE OUT IN FORCE IN THE HOUSE;
  THE SKETCH

BYLINE: SIMON CARR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 487 words


THE PRIME Minister put in such an energetic performance it verged on the
hooligan. "If he wonz an' argument, leddim come on an' 'ave it!" It was the
deepest exploration yet of the Prime Minister's estuarial hinterland. It
wouldn't have been out of place in a Portuguese cafe. Maybe it's part of a UKIP
Outreach strategy. Maybe he's just trying to suck up to the terrace element of
his own backbench. He was talking about Michael Howard and the future of the
NHS, incidentally.

Mr Howard said that a constituent of his had to wait 349 days for a knee
operation, whereas just over the boundary the same operation could be had in 33
days. Hence, he said, the Tory policy for the patient's "right to choose". Mr
Blair ("delighted to join battle") said "choice" was introduced by his
government. It was hardly a rebuttal, let alone a refutation. He's been waiting
so long you'd think he'd be better prepared.

Mr Howard went on. Labour's plan is to send patients who've been waiting more
than six months to a different hospital for their operation. But the hospital is
chosen by the Government. Under the Tory plan, it seems, the patient chooses.

Frankly this is a 16th century theological argument. The holy grail is this
thing "choice", but there is a protestant way to choose (individually) and a
catholic way to choose (through the governing body). Thousands died resolving
that argument, and doubtless thousands are dying now. This distinction between
good choice and bad choice, our sort of choice and your sort of choice is so
irritating to normal people (I exclude myself, obviously) it's no wonder they
decline to vote.

"People get fed up with those who continually run the NHS down," the Prime
Minister said. That may be true, but people also get fed up with those who
continually talk it up. In fact, the media's corrosive cynicism is probably
directly caused by the Government's pathological optimism.

We also get fed up with people who continually run their opponents down. "We
want to make the health service better and they want to wreck it!" Mr Blair
declaimed triumphantly. Do we really believe that? Do Tories want to eat babies
and put thalidomide in the water supply as well? It seems an unlikely way to get
votes in this day and age.

In fact, both parties are moving in very similar directions on the health
service; Labour's idea of reducing cataract waiting lists by contracting out to
the private sector, for instance, is very much what Oliver Letwin means when he
describes the NHS of the future (and is denounced for "wrecking the health
service"). As the parties converge so the rhetoric becomes wilder.

There remains the distinction between the catholic and protestant varieties of
choice - but while the argument is conducted with all the grace and precision of
a terrace chant it's a distinction that won't be bothering us for a while.

simoncarr75@hotmail.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              181 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: FLAWS IN THE CASE FOR STAYING IN EUROPE

BYLINE: MICHAEL O'HARE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 127 words


Sir: While I may share your views of the UKIP entirely ("The true face of a
party which wants us out of Europe", 15 June) I was perturbed when I saw your
front page.

When I began reading your newspaper in the 1980s I did so, and have continued to
do so, because its guiding principle was that it remained independent of
political direction, allowing readers to make up their own minds when presented
with factual news. Your front page of 15 June is more akin to a party political
broadcast. While I might expect a modicum of political opinion on your editorial
pages, I do not expect to read a front page that is in all but name a propaganda
leaflet telling me why I should not vote for a particular party.

MICHAEL O'HARE

Northwood, Middlesex

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              182 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: FLAWS IN THE CASE FOR STAYING IN EUROPE

BYLINE: GARY CARTWRIGHT

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 73 words


Sir: Your front page (15 June), lists "10 things the UKIP don't want you to know
about them". Why do you imagine that we do not want the electorate to know that
our 12 MEPs are "all white, male, and aged between 50 and 65"? Why is the
colour, gender and age of our MEPs so important? We are neither racist, sexist,
nor ageist. It doesn't matter to us; why does it matter to you?

GARY CARTWRIGHT

Campaign Manager, UKIP London W1

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              183 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: FLAWS IN THE CASE FOR STAYING IN EUROPE

BYLINE: CLIVE HARFIELD

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 83 words


Sir: If there is a valid criticism of the European project, it lies in the
asymmetrical power of the unelected Commission relative to that of the elected
Parliament. Yet UKIP's grand plan (report, 15 June) is to wreck the one European
institution that can truly represent the ordinary people. In doing so they
attack not the EU but the citizens of the member states, their liberties and
freedoms. Precisely those they claim to represent.

CLIVE HARFIELD

Leamington Spa, Warwickshire

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              184 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

BRITONS STILL BELIEVE IN THEIR NATURAL SUPERIORITY;
 WE STILL SING ABOUT RULING THE WAVES IN A WAY THAT NO OTHER EUROPEAN

BYLINE: MARK STEEL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 885 words


It was impressively English for Sven to blame England's defeat against France on
"bad luck" and "fate". Perhaps he found a page from Nostradamus that said "and
as the kingdom of the West prepares to hail its triumph over its enemy across
the sea, they shall be struck two times, the second when they are betrayed by a
sloppy pass seized by a Gallic lord off the va va voom advert."

It appears to have been accepted that bad luck was responsible. Similarly, a
typical headline before the tournament began was "We are the team to fear,"
although we haven't come closing to winning a major tournament for almost 40
years. We're like these blokes who declare "I'm going to pull tonight, I'll be
fighting them off," every Saturday despite not having come close for years. And
if they were asked to justify their optimism they'd say "Because I got that
unforgettable snog in 1966".

The tragedy of being English is that 50 years after surrendering the empire,
there is still a strong urge to believe in the idea that accompanied it of our
natural superiority. We still sing about ruling the waves in a way no other
European nation does, and when we don't win a football tournament we feel the
natural order has been disturbed. One consequence is that whenever we lose, some
people decide to trash the place. For some fans who watch the matches in the
pub, the tradition is to destroy some symbol of the opposing country, for
example a BMW if we're beaten by Germany. On Sunday they were probably searching
for patisseries, so they could scream "You dirty creamy bastard" and "You're
going home in a dustpan and a brush". This sort of fan could come to a finish if
we lose to Croatia, because their only stereotype symbols are snipers and
mercenaries.

None of this would matter if it was confined to football. But it's part of the
same attitude that means our biggest-selling newspaper could announce yesterday
in bold letters "We are everything Europe isn't. Why else would everyone want to
migrate here?"

That's right. Because no English people could abide the thought of buying a
house in France or Spain, whereas any European couple with a bit of spare cash
is desperate to buy their dream second house in Margate. Then they send
postcards to their friends to boast about their glorious lifestyle, starting
with: "You simply won't believe how wonderful the transport system is here! We
often get the 8.17 to Cannon Street just for the stunning scenery! Luckily it
always gets stuck for 25 minutes just outside Lewisham, giving us an excellent
view of a scrap metal yard that has to be seen to be believed!"

Then the Europeans who are lucky enough to migrate here must infuriate their
jealous friends by saying: "And it's SO cheap. With the money we got for our
apartment overlooking Barcelona we were able to buy a bin liner stuffed with
newspapers in a doorway up the Charing Cross Road."

To take another example, no one from Kent ever bothers nipping to France for
anything, whereas the French are queuing up day and night to come to Dover to
pick up expensive fags and beer, and petrol at prices that over there simply
aren't available. Take take take, that's all Europe does. We've never bothered
with their peculiarities such as pizzas and kebabs, whereas you can hardly move
in Rome or Paris for fishfinger-houses and tinned peaches take-aways.

How long does this desperate clinging to an obsolete empire go on? Do the
inhabitants of Carthage still expect to win every international elephant- racing
contest? Does the Sparta Gazette and Advertiser tell its readers "Our brave boys
defeated the Persians in the fourth century BC so we don't have to listen to EU
bureaucrats telling us our olives are too oval!"

The further into history our empire recedes, the more some people want to make
up for it by making ridiculous claims for our greatness. Politicians regularly
claim we have the finest tourist attractions in the world, the finest beaches in
the world, the most vibrant economy in the world, reaching further and further
from reality. There is a section of society that would like schoolbooks to
contain information such as "England is the biggest, most colourful and most
soluble country in the world". "Our national symbol comes from the lions that
inhabited large parts of Surrey, until Winston Churchill used his steely prowess
to tame them one by one and use them to win the battle of Hastings." And "At one
time the planet Earth was ruled by dinosaurs. Except in England, where heroic
tribesmen fought them on the beaches, driving back every last dinosaur in a
battle we still remember as D-day."

Here, in this frustrated view of the world lies the explanation for the rise of
the UK Independence Party.

Its followers are unable to accept that Britain no longer dominates in the way
they were brought up to believe it does. Like a child, they refuse to believe
anything can be their fault, or the fault of the English. If something's wrong,
Europe must have made it wrong. If our team loses it must be because the wrong
team was picked or the other side cheated, or we were plagued with bad luck but
never mind because we're sure to get revenge in the final.

But just in case, tonight keep your cuckoo clocks, penknives and Jewish gold
somewhere safe.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              185 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

BRIAN READE: BOYS IN THE HOOD

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 289 words


I'VE had some encouraging correspondence from UKIP supporters after joking that
their initials stand for U Kill Immigrants Please.

It's encouraging because at least it proves some of them can write.

Well, sort of: "Look ****-face. We don't want to kill them, we just want to send
them home to their dirty s**t-holes and let them die there," said an anonymous
wag whose spelling suggested they'd been locked in a s**t-hole for 10 years (the
Kilroy studio?) instead of going to school.

Most UKIPs are keen to point out there are no racists in their ranks. Despite
the fact that two of their MEPs - Mike Nattrass and Jeffrey Titford - used to
belong to the New Britain Party, who in 1997 demanded that "coloured immigration
to this country must stop completely and immediately".

So, throw in Arab-hater Kilroy (above) and you may as well give them white hoods
and change their name to the UKKKIP.

The big question Kilroy's Klan must answer now is what they will do with their
wages of sin. Kilroy says their sole intention is to derail the Brussels gravy
train.

Which presumably means they will do what Sinn Fein MPs did - ignore
Westminster's alien parliament and refuse to take their seats. Erm, no.

Well, surely their 12 MEPs will have nothing to do with the odious EU gravy
train, thus refusing to take their pounds 65,000 salary (which doubles with
expenses)? Erm, not quite.

They plan to take every penny they can. Whichmeans trousering pounds
1.5million-a-year between them from put-upon European tax-payers.

And why not? They want to keep the pound -all 7.5million of them, which will
flow into their pockets over the five-year life of this parliament.

All together now. Ahhhhhh, Bisto!

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              186 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - PROTEST VOTE IS A GIFT TO TORIES

BYLINE: J HILL

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 160 words


LABOUR lost out to the Tories and the UKIP in the recent local and European
elections. Many readers believe this is a temporary setback caused by resentment
over Iraq and warn against voting for the Tories at the next general election.

I CAN'T believe that voters thought they were punishing Tony Blair over Iraq by
not voting Labour in the recent elections.

All they have done is help the Tories get closer to their goal of privatising
the health service and making other spending cuts.

People should cast their minds back to the years of Tory government with 3.5
million unemployed, thousands of homes being repossessed every week and the
destruction of our public services.

If the Tories had invested in the NHS, education and transport as Labour have
done, we would not be experiencing the problems we see today.

Voters should be warned that if the Tories win the next election it will be back
to boom and bust.

J Hill, Edinburgh

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              187 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - PROTEST VOTE IS A GIFT TO TORIES

BYLINE: JIMMY FLEMMING

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 117 words


LABOUR lost out to the Tories and the UKIP in the recent local and European
elections. Many readers believe this is a temporary setback caused by resentment
over Iraq and warn against voting for the Tories at the next general election.

I WOULD like to warn Conservative leader Michael Howard that the anti-Labour
vote was not about how the government are performing generally, but about Iraq.

I'm certain that by the next general election Iraq will be more stable, the war
will have taken a back seat and Tony Blair will storm home to victory.

Voters will never forget the Tories' poll tax blunder or the man who introduced
it - Michael Howard.

Jimmy Flemming, Fleetwood, Lancs

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              188 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - PROTEST VOTE IS A GIFT TO TORIES

BYLINE: KARL SHERIDAN

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 99 words


LABOUR lost out to the Tories and the UKIP in the recent local and European
elections. Many readers believe this is a temporary setback caused by resentment
over Iraq and warn against voting for the Tories at the next general election.

LABOUR'S astonishment at taking a hammering in the recent elections amazes me.
Iraq isn't the main problem, it's the high taxes.

We pay more tax than most other countries in the EU. Labour needs to tackle
issues closer to home like rising crime, the NHS and immigration if they are
going to win votes.

Karl Sheridan, Erdington, Birmingham

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              189 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 17, 2004

SWINNEY DIPPING

BYLINE: Andrew Nicoll

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 385 words


It's poll a shock to John

THE great thing about politics in Scotland is that everybody gets a turn.

Not everybody gets a turn at running the country, of course. Only Jack's allowed
to do that and the Lib Dems should keep him in power until pinstripe kilts come
back in fashion or Hell freezes over - whichever is first.

But everybody gets a turn for a kicking from the Press. Jack's had it for weeks.

What with the kilt business and the D-Day business, it's been slapping after
slapping.

This week it was John Swinney's turn because - in spite of the tidal wave of
pooh that has been swamping Labour for months - John was unable to get close to
them in the Euro poll.

It's the third skelp in a row for poor old Swinney and - despite Olympic-class
denials from SNP spin doctors - even Stevie Wonder could spot which way the vote
is going.

Disaster

But wait! Let's look a little more deeply at the Euro results.

This wasn't just a disaster for the SNP, it wasn't exactly Friday night at the
London Palladium for the Scottish Socialists either.

Tommy's Trots were really quite confident about picking up a seat this time.

They invested heavily in campaigning literature, they put together a serious and
well-produced broadcast aimed at getting the vote out and they banged away at
Tony Blair over the Iraq war. But nothing happened. Far from pushing the Lib
Dems into fourth place - as they hoped - the Trots trailed in behind the Greens
and way behind the UK Independence Party.

And things aren't much better for the Greens.

No one can blame the turnout. For reasons I can't fathom, more people than ever
came out to vote. But for some reason the pool of deluded hippy tree huggers and
bonkers Bolsheviks seems to have dried up.

That's good news for the rest of us and it probably won't matter a damn to the
Greens who will happily go on weaving their own lentils.

But it's a different story for Tommy's lot. They only came together five years
back. Before that there was a whole bunch of angry lefties who hated each other
as much as they hated Mrs Thatcher.

If the wheels start to come off, he might have a bit of trouble keeping
everybody on side and angry revolutionaries don't bother with a retirement home
for failed leaders - they just shoot 'em.


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              190 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

Howard sees red and starts getting nasty

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 609 words


THERE were elections last week. Labour did badly. The Tories didn't do so well
either, particularly in Europe.

I mention this for reference purposes only. It is always helpful to hold on to a
tiny piece of reality when listening to MPs in the House of Commons, especially
during Prime Minister's Questions.

Tony Blair had barely arrived for the event when, behind him, the veteran MP
Dennis Turner was called to ask a question.

This, in itself, seemed intrinsically deceitful. Mr Turner, 61, is chairman of
the Commons Catering Committee and his idea of a tough question would be
something like: "Biscuits anyone?"

He lumbered up, resplendent in a jacket of finest teal.

"Have I got good news for our Prime Minister!"

There was a swell of noise at this.

"In the Fair Trade city of Wolverhampton last Thursday Labour gained eight
seats!"

The Speaker told him to put a question.

Mr Turner beamed at this reprimand. "I was wondering if the Prime Minister has
got a message for the good folks of Wolverhampton on what was very much a
wonderful Labour day!"

That, apparently, was the question.

It was perhaps a sign of the breadth of last week's defeat that the Labour back
benches were so friendly yesterday.

This also gave the Opposition a chance to provide some...well, opposition.

There was a bit of a colour theme in the chamber with many MPs dressed in red
and white (In-ger-land!) but the Leader of the Opposition took this one step
farther: he was seeing red.

Michael Howard has become Mr Angry. This is his attempt to find a political
persona that works against Mr Blair.

Over the past months Mr Howard has become a shape-shifter. It was not like this
in the bad old "something of the night" days. Then he was Mr Nasty or, if
feeling especially perky, Mr Nicely Nasty.

When he became leader last year, Mr Howard embarked on a long phase of being
reasonable. We saw flashes of humour and despair and, yes, anger, but nothing
like yesterday. He seemed to be absolutely furious all the time. It made me
wonder whether he is considering a future career as a taxi driver.

He began by being angry about things that were red (which, at least, seemed
logical). He does not like red lines (the passages in the new EU constitution
that the Government will not allow) and announced that red lines were red
herrings.

Labour should not be fussing round with all of this detail.

"If I were in his place, I would say NO!!!" he screamed.

This prompted counter-screams, of what I do not know.

Mr Howard screamed louder: "The British people want him to say 'no'. Which part
of the word 'no' doesn't he understand?"

Mr Blair said something reasonable which infuriated Mr Howard even more. He
embarked on one of those tortuous ideas that you have only when in the middle of
a row. This is because they are better left unsaid but yesterday Mr Howard's
words were plunging forth in what seemed an unstoppable stream.

He said the imminent negotiations in Brussels actually provided Britain with a
huge opportunity. "Other member states want to do things which we don't want to
do. Why can't we say to them: We DON'T want to stop YOU doing what YOU want to
do as long as you don't make us do what we DON'T want to do?"

This sentence was almost worthy of Dr Seuss in its construction but, though
silly, it also sounded very Eurosceptic indeed. Mr Blair scolded Mr Howard and
accused him of "running towards the UK Independence Party shouting, 'Me too'."
Mr Howard stayed silent at this, but I swear that I saw a thought bubble rising
from his head that said: "I'm so glad you noticed."


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              191 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

Big dilemma for the UK Independence Party

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 60 words


A big dilemma for the UK Independence Party. Will it remain affiliated to the
EDD European Parliament grouping, which, horror of horrors, is probably the same
group that Sinn Fein will want to belong to?

The thought of the permatanned Robert Kilroy-Silk et al sitting down with Gerry
Adams's representative in Europe is a gathering worth savouring.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              192 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

UKIP to join forces with EU sceptics

BYLINE: Anthony Browne

SECTION: Overseas news; 18

LENGTH: 219 words


THE United Kingdom Independence Party agreed with eurosceptic parties from other
countries yesterday to form a unified group in the European Parliament to help
to block legislation and to win EU funding and staff.

After a day of talks in Brussels, UKIP anticipates a group with 40 MEPs, double
the size of the last parliament's eurosceptic alliance.

"People have been battering down our doors all day," Nigel Fararge, a UKIP MEP
who led the negotiations in Brussels, said. With 12 MEPs, UKIP is the largest
purely eurosceptic party in the 732-member parliament.

"It will be a very coherent group in terms of policy and absolutely opposed to
an EU constitution in principle. It is (built) on a platform of co- operation
between independent nation states," he said.

UKIP wants the new alliance called simply the "No" group, or even "Non", to echo
Charles de Gaulle's reply on whether Britain should be admitted to the EU.

UKIP has ruled out working with far-Right groups such as the French National
Front, but will work with groups such as the ultra-Roman Catholic Polish
Families League, which has ten MEPs, and the Swedish June List, with three.

The alliance will share opposition to centralised EU power, but not all its
members will favour withdrawal from the EU -UKIP's policy.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

Questions of democracy

SECTION: Features; 35

LENGTH: 1563 words


Are politicians listening to the electorate; is democracy alive and well in
Britain today?

MATTHEW PARRIS is absolutely correct (Comment, June 12). It is central to our
democracy that smaller parties with mostly single-issue policies -the BNP and
the Greens -should be allowed to have their say however much we may take an
opposing view. In the context of the recent elections, we should remember the
words of Voltaire in 18th-century France: "I disapprove of what you say but I
will defend to the death your right to say it."

Regrettably, the proprietorial nature of politicians in the big three parties
seems to result in the conclusion that they own the votes of the electorate by
right. The remark attributed in The Times to Ann Cryer, Labour MP for Keighley,
after the BNP's success in her constituency (report, June 12) is perhaps most
telling. She concludes: "I hope that people who voted for them will be ashamed.

They are fascists."

For an MP to lambast her own constituents in this way for exercising their
democratic right does her no credit and can only serve to alienate her further
from many of the people she represents. That surely cannot be the right path for
our elected representatives to follow. For democracy to flourish, MPs must be
seen to respect the right of every British citizen to make democratic choices
with which they disagree.

Dominic Carman, DominicCarman@aol.com

Sickness and symptoms

DEMOCRACY is alive but ailing, and there are several forces making it sick.

The media is hypercritical. Only bad news is news. Politicians are fair game for
hectoring, and accusations of selfinterest and cynicism stick in the public
mind.

The political parties, in the main, have policies so similar that there are few
opposing causes to arouse passion. Perhaps the UKIP will make a difference.

The young people of today are not taught enough history to understand what has
formed their society and how they are part of it. If a man knows no history he
cannot know his place in society and how he can change it.

John Mercer, Sidcup

Less is more

I VIEW political correctness as an anathema: promoting the perceived needs of
the individual over what is democratically accepted. This fundamentally
undermines the authority of the majority, which is crucial to the survival of
democracy.

For democracy to flourish, I would suggest that we need less government but of a
higher quality. Meanwhile, the majority of the electorate have spoken by denying
their support for the established parties.

Hamish Hossick, Glasgow

The value of voting

WHILE Ann Treneman's article in last Friday's paper took a light-hearted
approach to people not bothering to vote in elections, this is of course a
serious issue.

Politicians and electoral reformists are trying to boost the number of people
voting by making it easier and more "fun" -postal voting, SMS, and so on -but
this is not addressing the key problem of why people don't bother to vote.

Our company is one of the largest social and political market research
organisations in the world and we have, over the past three or four years, asked
two key questions in more than 50 countries and on a number of occasions. The
replies clearly demonstrate the problem.

In a majority of countries a substantial majority (around 60 per cent) agree
that "they live in a democracy, and elections are free and fair". As you might
expect, in Western Europe these percentages are much higher.

However, when asked "Is your country ruled by the will of the people?" a bigger
percentage (over 60 per cent in many countries) believe that their country is
"not ruled by the will of the people". The disturbing thing is that countries
such as the UK, France, Germany, the Netherlands and the US score some of the
highest percentages.

Clearly there is a significant majority of people in Western Europe who on the
one hand agree that elections are fair and free, but on the other consider that
this has no relevance to the way that their country is ruled, or to the way that
major decisions are taken, so it doesn't matter how you vote, or even if you
vote at all.

Tony Cowling, Chairman, Taylor Nelson Sofres, London W5

The biggest worry

MICHAEL GOVE is right to draw attention to the large vote given to the BNP
("Voters deliver their verdict on the cosy political club", Comment, June 15).

This is the most worrying feature of the election result, not the rise of the
UKIP.

The Government must be more open and honest about immigration issues and respond
to people's concerns.

P. J. Dignan, Frodsham, Merseyside

Who knows best?

MICHAEL GOVE's article rightly accentuates the current failings of our most
recognised politicians and the resultant mismanagement by spin that our Labour
Government and its Tory Opposition practise. Yet in his rush to promote a more
honest approach, he then pronounces that only these (two) parties have the
capability to form what he believes to be a "responsible government". One can
only conclude that Mr Gove is by definition a paid up member of the "failed
establishment politicians" club. This most select band of individuals works on
the principle that only it can deliver democracy -strangely a point of view that
he seemed so utterly determined to present as unacceptable.

J. H. White, Shepshed, Leicestershire

Before it's too late

I AGREE with Michael Gove. I was utterly nauseated by Patricia Hewitt's
performance on election night. She and the other politicians were self righteous
and condescending in the extreme.

It is time for a more mature and balanced political discourse in this country,
which admits error and gives credit to opposition where it is due.

I am most alarmed by the rise in the BNP vote and plead with politicians to
begin to listen to what the decent majority of citizens are saying. We are not
fooled by pretence, nor when statistics are manipulated dishonestly.

Please listen before the extremists become a real threat to our way of life.

P. J. Barber, philbarber12@btinternet.com

Nobody asked

PLEASE can someone explain to me the reason for the recent EU elections? It just
seems so perverse that I can vote for an EU member without ever being asked if I
want an EU member.

Why hasn't anybody asked me if I want to vote for a Commonwealth parliment? As
leaders of the Commonwealth this is far more feasible. What about a Commonwealth
pound? It seems a much better idea than joining the euro.

Justin Davies, jd1songbird@yahoo.co.uk

Making life difficult

NO. democracy isn't alive and well. Why, when discussing the low turnout, do
politicians blame the electorate for not voting? Why do they not consider the
possiblity that people are not voting because there is no one they want to vote
for?

Obviously, the reason for this dissatifaction is different for everyone, but for
me it is because it offends me to live in a country where those who govern us
will take our money at every opportunity to fund their enormous and inefficient
structures, but hand out fines for every little thing -from parking to the
congestion charge -so that it becomes too expensive for people to perform a
day's work. What sort of a society allows this legalised theft by the tax
collectors, and doesn't realise that without people who drive recovery vehicles,
who teach, who serve us in shops, we would have no society at all?

Frances Smith, Ilford, Essex

The chance to say 'no'

IT IS a wonderful freedom to be able to cast one's vote without fear or
recrimination, but to do so one must either make a choice of what is on offer,
or display in some other way the disdain felt about the fact that one's
influence appears ineffectual. The options to show displeasure are either not
voting at all, or spoiling your ballot paper to show your feelings for the
candidates or policies, or both. This is not satisfactory and probably not
legal.

If voting were made compulsory there would need to be a mechanism to allow one
to vote for a candidate or policy, or to show disapproval of what is on offer by
abstaining.

Ian Lomas, Leicester

Biased representation

DEMOCRACY is based upon the principle of taking into account all the views
expressed by the electorate. At a time when very low turnouts are the norm and
when people are faced with the limited choices offered by the two main parties,
can this really be described as democracy?

Moreover, the media has an impact on different views. We can see the influence
of the Eurosceptical press upon voters' attitudes to the EU. This again stifles
democracy somewhat, due in some quarters to the biased representation of
opinion.

So is democracy alive and well in Britain? My answer must be "no".

George Dyer, Knaresborough

Listen or lose

THE routine wailing over the small successes of minor parties is indeed an
appalling abuse of democracy.

Equally unpleasant is the losing parties' reaction. We did not understand their
policies properly, or did not listen to their messages, or did not judge them on
their record, so we stupidly failed to vote for them.

In fact, the truth seems to be that we did understand their policies, did hear
their messages, did judge them on their record, and that is why we voted for the
other candidates.

George Edwards, Harrogate


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              194 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
                                   The Times

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

UK independence from women

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 8

LENGTH: 89 words


THE BBC's estimable political correspondent Carolyn Quinn raised the topic at a
Westminster press conference yesterday of the preponderance of white, middle
aged men in the UK Independence Party. "This might sound a cheeky question, but
why are there no women among you?" Quinn, a regular presenter of PM and the
Today programme on Radio 4, asked. Roger Knapman, the party leader, answered
straight away, which was just as well because he all-but drowned out the aside
from a Tory peer who will remain nameless: "Silly bitch."


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                              195 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
                                   The Times

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

Now Howard must make peace with the UKIP

BYLINE: Simon Jenkins

SECTION: Features; 20

LENGTH: 1359 words


POSITION A. The British Conservative Party is revived. It is lean, mean and led
from the front by a new man. The UK Independence Party with its 16 per cent poll
share is a blip. Europe is not a swing issue with the electorate. The UKIP's
maverick voters will return to the Tory fold come a proper election. Tony Blair
is on the run. The Opposition needs only to keep its head. The UKIP is a passing
gadfly.

Position B. The UKIP has moved the earth. Half the electorate wants out of the
European Union and Michael Howard has missed the bus. He has allowed the UKIP to
escape the Tory coalition and win established party status. Local Tories are
fiercely anti-EU, held in check only by a faltering loyalty to their London
leadership. The UKIP could lose half its present strength and still wreck the
Tories' uphill struggle to election victory. Mr Howard must make peace with them
or face humiliation and defeat.

At this point in the argument, the traditional pundit opens a drawer on his desk
and, with tweezers, extracts a perfectly formed subjunctive or future
conditional.

He drops on to his prose "... the outcome remains to be seen" or "Mr Howard must
choose ..." or "only time will tell". This column enjoys no such licence. It
cannot retreat to the trenches of ambiguity. It must advance towards the guns of
speculation.

The European elections left Labour and Conservative parties with a minority of
votes cast between them and a surge in anti-European sentiment. This weekend
several sorely wounded European leaders meet in Brussels to agree a new
constitution. They mean to do so in flat contradiction to a rising fifth of the
European electorate. If I were Mr Blair I would declare the constitution
unacceptable and come straight home.

But what should Mr Howard do? Of course the Tories should never have allowed the
UKIP to break free. All parties are coalitions. Keeping them together is the
principal task of a leader. Macmillan and Wilson spent half their time shoring
up coalitions. Margaret Thatcher did so too. John Major went through hell doing
it.

When Labour split in 1981 it stayed out of power for a decade and a half.

Mr Howard is holding aloof. He is relying on polling evidence that Europe is not
important to the electorate, apparently ranking twelfth among "issues". Yet it
ranks high among local Tories and even higher among the party hierarchs. Mr
Howard has adopted the Major-Hague-Duncan-Smith formula of half agreeing with
both sides, of being sceptical but not to the last ditch. His line is to vote
"no" in the forthcoming referendum and then seek a "renegotiation". For some
reason he wants above all to repatriate fisheries and overseas aid.

That has plainly not met the demands of UKIP's 16 per cent of electors, most of
them former Tories. I have visited constituencies in three areas in the past two
months and found hardly one Conservative who does not sympathise with the UKIP's
policy of withdrawal, whether or not preceded by renegotiation.

They regard the Euroscepticism of Mr Howard and his colleagues as lukewarm and
unsustained in practice. Did these leaders not sign the Single European Act and
the (amended) Maastricht treaty? They spent 18 years handing 70 per cent of
lawmaking and regulation over from Westminster to Brussels. They claimed
constantly to renegotiate, but they never did. They just accused true sceptics
of being "bastards"?

Everyone may now be a Euro-sceptic, other than the herbivore Liberal Democrats.

But sceptics-in-government have proved pragmatists. Margaret Thatcher and John
Major signed their protocols and treaties like good Europeans. Mr Blair tabled
some 200 amendments to the new European constitution. Barely a dozen were
accepted and he sighed with relief when negotiations collapsed last year. His
"red lines" of non-negotiable items are in reality pink. To Britain's government
elite, the EU has always been a fact of life, like the NHS and the Atlantic
alliance. Withdrawal has been unthinkable.

Not any more. Last week saw a Peasants' Revolt. The UKIP has put withdrawal on
the map, capturing the hearts, if not the votes, of an overwhelming majority of
Tories. How can Mr Howard claim to renegotiate Britain's position in Europe,
they say, if he dare not threaten withdrawal? Without withdrawal he negotiates
from weakness. Where is the bottom line in that, where the conviction, where the
glory?

This offers a deep divide in British politics. Like the best historical divides
- the Corn Laws, tariff reform, appeasement -it is vividly reflected within the
Tory party not between it and other parties. To Tories Europe is not like health
or privatisation. It lies deep in their DNA. It is Britain or not Britain.

Mr Howard cannot ignore such a divide, any more than could Peel or Bonar Law or
Chamberlain. The Conservative Party's strength is provincial. It lies in a
coalition of commercial, professional and landed interests which have long
viewed the Euro-appeasement of its leaders with suspicion. These groups saw
Baroness Thatcher and Mr Major dismantle their power bases in the English cities
and counties and hand that power over to Brussels. They duly deserted the party.
They stayed at home.

Now they have found an outlet for their lost potency, supported by a clear base
in public opinion. The party's one-time supporters want Euroscepticism with
attitude.

They want localism. They want blood. They may not demand immediate withdrawal,
but they want withdrawal "unless".

Mr Howard cannot afford to alienate the UKIP any more. That would be a
self-inflicted wound that would tarnish his remarkable achievement, of restoring
confidence to his party and giving it a sporting election chance. Even if UKIP
support falls to 5 per cent, its continuing presence would devastate
constituency morale. Last week the UKIP won the right to Tory respect. I believe
that the divide within the sceptic camp is becoming more apparent than real.
Tories and the UKIP will be standing shoulder to shoulder for "no" during the
referendum. The UKIP's bottom line of a "civilised withdrawal" implies, at very
least, a new deal on trade with the EU. That negotiation has to have substance.

Mr Howard's bottom line rejects whatever constitution Mr Blair may, or may not,
bring back from Brussels this weekend. If the British reject the EU
constitution, the EU will not simply revert to the status quo ante. There will
be crockery smashed all over Europe. Other European leaders, already quaking in
the face of popular aversion to Brussels, may accept that "Treaty-of-Rome"
Europe has had its day. The European adventure would need renegotiating from the
bottom up. In that event all European bets are off. Tory sceptics and UKIP
together will have won the day.

Even if so seismic an outcome does not follow rejection, Britain will have to
forge a new, more detached, relationship with its partners. Scepticism would
then be reflected in negotiating choices. I cannot see why Mr Howard need reject
in advance the "clean break" option, any more than the UKIP rejects the need for
renegotiation. The desire for a trading rather than political union accords with
the view of most Tories, and with many Labour supporters. Nor will the rest of
Europe be negotiating from strength. There is no quarrelling with a referendum.

The old vision of a federal Europe is foundering. The new constitution is its
last gasp, a morass of pompous language and centralist aggrandisement. The
European movement has converted what Wells called a "community of will" into a
"community of obedience". It forgot that the finest artefact of postwar
reconstruction was not economic cohesion but nation-state democracy. It forgot
states' rights.

All this the Tories should be able to agree with the UKIP, or at least with its
supporters. We are seeing the slow morbidity of the EU's body. It will take time
to die, but time need not come between happy necrophiliacs. The one thing Mr
Howard cannot afford is pride. He needs the UKIP more than it needs him. That is
a fact, but not an insuperable one.

simon.jenkins@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                              196 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
                                   The Times

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

UKIP's role in the new Europe

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 105 words


From Mr J. P. Webster

Sir, Mr Lovegrace claims the UKIP improperly sought election to the European
Parliament as it is opposed to the whole concept of EU membership. At least this
is a genuinely democratic approach, with a party seeking to work for its aims
within the system.

Better to dismantle the power of Brussels brick by brick than witness scenes
such as the rioting at recent G8 meetings or, heaven forbid, a terrorist bomb.

Yours faithfully, J. P. WEBSTER, 22 The Green, Edlesborough, Dunstable,
Bedfordshire LU6 2JF.

June 15.

We accept letters by post, fax or e-mail, but not by telephone.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                              197 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
                                   The Times

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

It's the perfect white t-shirt

BYLINE: Lisa Armstrong

SECTION: Features; Times2; 10

LENGTH: 1044 words


BREEZE THROUGH SUMMER WITH THE PERFECT WHITE T-SHIRT, THE PERFECT FOUNDATION AND
A PAIR OF TRUSTY BIRKENSTOCKS, ADVISES Lisa Armstrong

THE BIRKENSTOCK is the antithesis of glamour, and something we always hoped
would quietly go away. To wear these shoes was to proclaim to the world that you
had an obsessive interest in growing your own alfalfa sprouts. But then they got
groovy - or at any rate quite pretty, provided you wore them with a pedicure.
New styles were added; if you'd been going since 1774, you'd update the stock.
Heidi Klum was roped in to design Pounds 200 versions that feature animal
prints. Lots of girly colours were added to the millet shades and lo, a summer
perennial was consolidated.

Now, instead of placing our version of a fashion fatwa on the Birkie, we've
unashamedly leapt on the bandwagon (have you felt how comfortable they are?).

Imagine Joan Collins dumping the UKIP and hugging the Green Party instead for
equivalent seismic shock tremors. At least come winter our feet won't be
wrecked.

From Pounds 29.95. The Birkenstock shop is at 70 Neal Street, London WC2H 9PA;
020-7240 2783; www.birkenstock.co.uk.

FOUNDATION COURSE

It's time to wipe off that St George's Cross make-up and try something more
flattering. Finding the right foundation in summer -light but not so light that
it's ineffective -is like gold prospecting: it's out there, but where? Sk-11's
Airtouch Foundation is a push-button ioniser that sprays an exceptionally fine
layer of foundation on to the skin, and sounds gimmicky until you try it. The
effect is so natural that you won't mind wearing it on the hottest days. The
drawback is that it's horribly pricey (Pounds 110 for the ioniser, Pounds 40 for
the refill cartridges). Still, you don't use much at a time. Other excellent
lightweight bases are Prescriptives Traceless Skin Responsive Tint, Pounds 42;
Boots' No 7 Illuminating Tinted Moisturiser, Pounds 6.50; and, although I'm not
too keen on anything applied with a sponge, Chantecaille's Real Skin, Pounds 42.

TIME FOR T-SHIRTS

You can never be too thin or too rich, or in possession of too many white
T-shirts. Actually you can. If the white T-shirt in question is perfect, three
or four should suffice. Perfection has been elusive, however -if the cut is
right, there's usually something wrong with the fabric. In response, Penny
Jones, a former designer and buyer for retailers such as Harrods, Marks &
Spencer, Fortnum & Mason and Liberty, launched The White T-shirt Co while on
maternity leave. There are five styles of T-shirt for women, with a choice of
necklines and sleeve lengths. Classic rather than trendy, these excellent T
shirts are made from 100 per cent Danish woven Green Cotton which holds its
shape no matter how often the shirt is washed, despite containing no Lycra and
having no chemical finishes.

From Pounds 32; www.thewhitetshirt.co.uk

0870 1202331

FROCKS AND ART

Whether knowing that Tracey Emin and Sam Taylor-Wood have acquired almost as
many clothes between them as the Hilton sisters ultimately helps their cause as
serious artists is a moot point. But being embraced by the art world after
several millennia as a (very) poor relation clearly ticks some sexy boxes for
British fashion designers, culminating in one big catwalk presentation -sorry,
mutual show of artistic appreciation -at the Serpentine Gallery's annual party
this evening.

Ever since Diana, Princess of Wales, flashed a toned thigh or two at the party
ten years ago on the same night that the Prince of Wales gave that interview to
Jonathan Dimbleby, the Serpentine's summer party has been something of a
coming-out event. It's where Tim Jefferies showed his (sort of) serious side by
rather efficiently chairing the whole thing, and countless others flock -from
Kate Moss (on this year's committee) and Sophie Dahl to Nicole Farhi and Steve
Martin -to prove that they, too, are People of Depth. The fact that they also
happen to be People of Depth with enviable wardrobes doesn't hurt; frankly, the
Serpentine summer party now gives better frock than the Baftas. "I'm just
delighted that people want to come and have so much fun, and that they put so
much fun into looking glamorous," says Julia Peyton-Jones, the Serpentine's
tireless director. "The work we do for 364 days of the year with our exhibitions
and educational programmes is sufficiently respected that we can let our hair
down a little for one night."

The French have never had any problems combining fashion with art. Jean Cocteau
was dreaming up projects with Coco Chanel 50 years ago, while Elsa Schiaparelli
was borrowing freely from the Dadaists as if there were no tomorrow -and no one
ever thought to put her in Pseuds' Corner.

How different from our own fair land, where frocks are considered to be several
thousand leagues down the food chain from art. Long after he was knighted, Sir
Hardy Amies still took the tradesmen's entrance into Buckingham Palace -and
considered himself blessed to be doing so. Would Yves Saint Laurent have been so
accommodating on trips to the Elysee Palace?

And yet things are a-changing. Whatever one thinks about the impact of Brit Art,
its practitioners have done wonders in promoting British fashion as a furnace of
highfalutin creativity. Emin is happy to be seen in the front row. Taylor-Wood
is thrilled to work with Kate Moss (as are the Chapman brothers). Gary Hume
collaborates with Stella McCartney and Alexander McQueen dips constantly into
art, most famously when he borrowed images from Joel-Peter Witkin. Farther
afield, Marc Jacobs's collaboration with the Japanese artist Takashi Murakami
turned out to be one of Louis Vuitton's most commercially successful
collections.

If the Serpentine's red carpet has become the standard-bearer of a national
passeggiata, the symbol, as Peyton-Jones puts it, "that the old snobberies
between art and fashion have broken down so much as to be almost invisible",
then good.

Having people abroad regard Britain as one fabulously well-dressed creative
salon is so much nicer than being thought of as a gulag of B&Q-fixated,
overweight hooligans.

Bad Manors by Lisa Armstrong is published this week, Pounds 6.99, Coronet


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                              198 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
                                   The Times

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

Stuck on Europe?

BYLINE: Martin Waller

SECTION: Business; 27

LENGTH: 122 words


ALREADY packing his bags for Strasbourg is Godfrey Bloom, whom we have come
across before here, most recently as sponsor to the Cambridge ladies' rugby
team. Bloom, a former Mercury Asset Management fund manager who now runs a West
End financial adviser, has been elected MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire
for the UKIP.

He is confident he can continue in both jobs -presumably, in keeping with its
aims, UKIP's involvement with the EU Parliament will be limited.

But Bloom had to make do without at least one potential vote. He managed to
screw up filling in his postal voting form and had to cut the letter open again.
"I sent it in, but it was so covered in Sellotape I can't believe they counted
it."


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                              199 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 16, 2004

Pressing for unity will drive EU apart

BYLINE: ALLAN MASSIE

SECTION: ED_SC1_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 868 words


WE have had no end of a lesson/It will do us no end of good.' That was Kipling's
response to the disasters and defeats in the first months of the Boer War. His
conclusion was sensible learn from your mistakes, so that you are not condemned
to repeat them. One wonders if the European political class will be thinking in
this way.

Will the heads of government meeting in Dublin to try to agree on the final
terms of the proposed European Constitution heed the message coming from voters
across the EU, or will they shrug their shoulders and dismiss the sometimes
stridently sceptical view and the results of the polls as a blip?

The chances are they will do precisely that, and press on regardless. But it
will be a mistake.

I say that as a pro-European, and as one who thinks both that the EU should have
a constitution and that this one proposed is as Glasgow historian Niall Ferguson
argues in the current issue of Prospect magazine actually rather good for
Britain.

He points out that it checks the drive to federalism, gives more power to the
Council of Ministers at the expense of the European Commission and more weight
to the member states, especially the larger ones such as the UK.

Nevertheless, it is precisely because I am pro-European that I think the heads
of government should draw back now.

What the EU needs is a period of quiet, of no new initiatives or pushes for
further or deeper integration. It needs, indeed, a degree of relaxation. When
you have members of the Dutch government representatives of a state at the heart
of the move towards union for half a century and which was one of the six
founders calling for the ' repatriation' of certain powers from Brussels to
member states, it would be sheer folly to press on with integration.

That is the surest way of fomenting further resentment.

Of course, they may still do so.

'Whom the gods wish to destroy,' after all, 'they first make mad.'

RESENTMENT is what Eurosceptics and Europhobes feel, a nasty emotion but an
understandable one among those who believe, as UKIP voters have said, that their
country has been taken from them.

Resentment has been the driving force of Jean- Marie Le Pen's National Front in
France. We in Britain have long indulged ourselves in a sense of moral
superiority because we had no equivalent of Le Pen and his party. Well now we
have, in Robert Kilroy-Silk and the UKIP.

Of course most supporters of that party are decent people, just as Le Pen's are
mainly decent French men and women who resent large-scale immigration and what
they like the UKIP think of as 'Brussels rule'.

But resentment, if given occasion to fester, can turn very nasty indeed.

People feel they have been lied to, not listened to, and that politicians act
without regard to them or to what they perceive as their interests.

The Eurosceptic and Europhobe parties in the European parliament are,
admittedly, a very mixed bunch.

They range from the Czech Communist Party, which got 20 per cent of the vote, to
Jorg Haider's Austrian Freedom Party, which is generally thought to be neo-Nazi
and whose leader courted Saddam Hussein.

Indeed, the only thing they have in common is this resentment of what they
condemn as the centralisation of power in Brussels and the elision of national
differences.

It should be said that there is lying on both sides. If, over the years,
enthusiasts for the EU have been at the very least economical with the truth,
the same may be said of its critics and opponents. Their biggest and most loudly
repeated lie has been about the cost of the EU.

In fact the EU's total budget is tiny in comparison with that of the larger
member states and less than three times that of the Scottish parliament and
Executive.

Even the much-trumpeted British net contribution to the budget comes to no more
than our extravagant Chancellor Gordon Brown himself spends on the first two
days of every week. There is certainly waste and incompetence in Brussels'
management of its budget, but probably no more than there is in our own state
health service.

Likewise the positive benefits of our EU membership are taken for granted and
little publicised, though our present prosperity owes much to the free movement
of capital and labour which membership offers.

The widespread disenchantment with the EU is part of a general disenchantment
with our established political parties and, indeed, with politics as a whole.
The turnout in Scotland for the European parliament was low, but so was the
turnout for the Scottish election last year.

BE that as it may, to push ahead now with projects for further integration or
what looks like further integration would be a mistake. The mood across Europe
is against it. To ignore that mood would be stupid.

Those who are most committed to Europe, most enthusiastic about the EU, should
acknowledge that they have not carried their electorates with them and should be
ready to draw back. To push on now risks bringing the edifice crashing down.

The people who put the EU at risk are those who won't learn the lesson of this
election. The EU has moved too fast for its own good.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              200 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 16, 2004

IMMIGRANTS DID ME IN SAYS BLAIR

BYLINE: by MACER HALL Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words


BATTERED Tony Blair yesterday admitted that immigration chaos led to his
election trouncing.

The Prime Minister accepted that fury over asylum seekers cost Labour millions
of votes in the town hall and Euro polls last week.

But he astonishingly blamed the Tories for the chaos - despite being in power
for over seven years.

Mr Blair pinpointed the asylum issue yesterday while explaining why Labour
slumped to a 22% vote, the party's worst election result for nearly a century.

Speaking at his monthly Downing Street press conference, the Prime Minister
confessed: "I think asylum and immigration was a big issue in the election,
actually."

Mr Blair accepted that rising numbers of asylum claims last year had angered
voters.

But he claimed the Government had "inherited" an asylum system that was "in
chaos".

He said the Government had slashed asylum claims - which were now "far lower"
than under the Tories.

Many voters are thought to have backed the UK Independence Party over fears that
the EU could take over border controls.

Mr Blair also accepted that opposition to the war in Iraq had hit Labour.

He used the press conference to signal a new drive to boost hospitals, schools
and public services.

He said: "No politician can afford to be deaf to the voice of the electorate.

"There are clearly big challenges ahead for the country, concerns that we have
to address, big arguments to be won."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              201 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

We'll spend pounds 49bn extra on services, says Howard Parties compete on health
and schools

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan and George Jones

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 736 words

MICHAEL HOWARD committed the Tories last night to spending pounds 49 billion a
year extra on health and education by 2010 in an ambitious attempt to kill off
Labour claims that he wants to slash public services.

Unveiling the "big idea" that will underpin the next manifesto, he sought to
regain the initiative after last weekend's election results showed that his
party was still short of achieving the breakthrough it needed to win power at
Westminster.

His decision to announce far-reaching spending plans for health and education
was a deliberate rebuff to Right-wingers who have been pressing him to focus on
Europe and tax cuts after the UK Independence Party's advances into Conservative
heartlands.

Tony Blair acknowledged at his monthly press conference at No 10 that the
Government must return to domestic priorities after months that have been
dominated by Iraq.

At setpiece events only a few hundred yards apart in Whitehall, the two leaders
used remarkably similar language about extending choice. But they differed
sharply on how huge sums of money would be deployed.

Their decision to spell out their domestic priorities was an indication that
both believe that public services, not Europe, will be the key election
battleground.

Mr Howard, who made his reputation as an arch-Thatcherite, has been convinced
from experience in his Folkestone constituency that worries about hospital
waiting lists and failing schools are people's biggest concern.

Under the banner of "right to choose", the Tories will guarantee that patients
and parents will be able to seek treatment at a hospital of their choice and
choose where to educate their children.

Mr Howard predicted that the Labour "scare machine" would try to persuade voters
that the Tories would cut health spending. The Government is campaigning on a
warning that Mr Howard's economic policies would mean cuts of pounds 18 billion.

Oliver Letwin, the shadow chancellor, aims to deliver at least as much cash as
Labour for health and education by reducing Government waste and slowing growth
in spending in other areas.

"I want to give everyone the kind of choice in health and education that today
only people with money can buy," he said. "What we say is what people will get."

A seven-month internal review decided to rename proposals on patients' passport
and pupils' passports after MPs complained that they were proving difficult to
explain to voters. Next week details will be unveiled on how "right to choose"
would work in health. Choice will extend to opting for treatment in a private
hospital, with the NHS paying the majority of the cost and the patient paying
the rest. How it will work in education will be set out the following week.

Mr Howard spoke of "investing" rather than "spending", prompting some observers
to suggest that he was adopting phraseology favoured by Gordon Brown to make
public expenditure more palatable.

He promised to find the additional pounds 49 billion - pounds 34 billion for
health services and pounds 15 billion for schools - over the course of the next
parliament.

His aides said this would push annual spending up to pounds 124 billion on the
NHS and pounds 67 billion on schools. But they struggled to provide detailed
costings.

Mr Howard said that "right to choose" was an easy-to-understand successor to
"right to buy", the council house sell-off championed by Margaret Thatcher that
defined the Tory successes of the 1980s. It was a simple idea that would
"liberate the human spirit", he said.

"It is time we . . . ended the shocking inequalities between the rich and the
poor in standards of treatment in health and education. And it is time to end a
world where people have to shut up and take what they are given."

Tory fears that Labour could still trump Mr Howard's commitments were reinforced
when the Prime Minister promised that the Government would move "further and
faster" to improve schools and hospitals and other services after its drubbing
in the European and local elections.

He accepted that voters wanted reassurance that Labour was on track to fulfil
the promises it gave in 1997.

"Put the patient first, put the law-abiding citizen first, put the parent and
child first," he said.

Next week the Government will publish a five-year plan for improving the NHS -
the first of a series for the public services that will form a key part of
Labour's manifesto.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              202 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

Blair threatens veto at talks on EU constitution

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News; Politics: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 799 words

TONY BLAIR toughened his stance on the proposed European constitution yesterday
by warning that he would veto any move to allow the EU to set tax rates or
interfere with Britain's right to set its own industrial relations policy.

Although Mr Blair said it would be an act of "extraordinary foolishness" to give
in to the UK Independence Party's demand to pull Britain out of the EU, he set
strict conditions for approving the next stage of European integration.

Tomorrow, the Prime Minister flies to Brussels for a make-or-break summit on the
proposed constitution, which is aimed at streamlining the structures of the EU
after the accession of 10 new member states this year.

Mr Blair appeared subdued and chastened by the scale of Labour's losses in the
European and local elections, but made clear he was determined to carry on to
secure a third term as Prime Minister.

"No politician can afford to be deaf to the voice of the electorate," he said.

"There are clearly big challenges ahead for the country, concerns that we have
to address, big arguments to be won about the future direction of policy. But
these are arguments I am prepared to win."

Mr Blair rejected calls from some Labour MPs to apologise for the Iraq war. He
still believed the Government was right to take military action and remove
Saddam Hussein. "The judgment will increasingly be seen to be right as time goes
on," he said.

While Mr Blair insisted Britain's role still lay at the heart of Europe, his
decision to harden his negotiating stance was seen as an indication that he had
heard the sceptical message from the 2.7 million people who voted for UKIP.

He said he respected the position of anybody who believed Britain would be
better off outside the EU. But he thought it was the wrong position for the
country.

"It would be an act of extraordinary foolishness for us as a country in the
early 21st century to withdraw from the biggest political alliance in the world,
and the biggest economic market right on our doorstep," he said.

The Government has a series of "red line" issues which it is determined to
defend: retaining the national veto on EU decision-making on taxation, foreign
policy, social security, defence, contributions to the EU budget and key areas
of criminal justice.

Mr Blair said he would negotiate "constructively", but said any deal must be
consistent with the commitments the Government had already made to Parliament
and the country and not move "to some sort of superstate".

"I don't believe it is right for us to lose the ability to say No to proposals
for harmonising tax or social security. We need to have that right."

He acknowledged the concerns of business that the Charter of Fundamental Rights,
which is to be incorporated in the new constitution, could give the European
Court of Justice sweeping powers to overturn British law and roll back many of
the free-market reforms of the past 20 years.

According to the CBI, the employers' organisation, laws on trade union
recognition, secret ballots before strikes and a ban on secondary picketing,
which have helped to create the UK's flexible labour market, could be put at
risk.

Mr Blair said he was not prepared to agree to anything that took away Britain's
ability to make sure its industrial laws "remain as flexible as they are now".
He said they had helped the UK achieve high levels of employment.

"We have to be sure - and our legal advice is very clear - that there is no
question of the European Court of Justice, whether by the front door or the back
door, being able to alter these laws."

Although the preamble to the charter states that it does not create new rights
in British law, this does not have legal force. Mr Blair wants this guarantee
written into the constitution's official text. Government officials still
believe agreement is possible in Brussels this weekend. The talks broke down in
acrimony last December, but strenuous efforts have been made to get them back on
track.

Mr Blair stressed there were good "technocratic" reasons for a new constitution
to improve the running of an enlarged EU. But his emphasis on safeguarding
Britain's position on tax and industrial relations showed that he sees last
week's elections as a shot across the Government's bows.

Concessions which could be seen as further erosion of sovereignty would make it
even more difficult for Mr Blair to win the promised referendum on the
constitution.

Mr Blair stressed that he was determined to remain America's closest ally while
playing a lead role in Europe.

Other countries would "give their eye teeth" to be in Britain's position - as
the strongest ally of the US, the only superpower, and a member of the biggest
political alliance and biggest economic market in the world, through Europe.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              203 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

One-man show full of sound and fury signifying nothing Sketch

BYLINE: By Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News; International: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 644 words

TONY Blair is widely acclaimed as one of the finest actors of his generation,
but critics are starting to question how much longer his one-man show can
continue its record-breaking run in the West End.

To realise what a mean-spirited, success-hating, life-denying bunch of creeps
those critics are, it is best to visit one of the special performances Mr Blair
gives each month in the intimate surroundings of the state dining-room at No 10.

The Prime Minister, as he is known to his fans, staged one of these delectable
pre-lunch entertainments yesterday, almost two years since he pioneered this
form of open government, and it soon became clear that he remains a master of
the genre.

His trademark friendliness, his consummate ability to avoid answering any
question he does not want to answer, and the skilful way in which, when danger
threatens, he becomes so dull that he renders his audience desperate to go and
have lunch; all these place him in a class of his own.

There will always, unfortunately, be theatregoers who nourish a narrow-minded
prejudice against a show with only one actor in it, and accuse Mr Blair of being
horribly "presidential" and complain, like a coach-load of provincial tourists,
that they are "not getting their money's worth".

These malcontents are oblivious to the rave reviews Mr Blair has received in the
United States and also, according to Mr Blair, in Iraq. They say they have paid
for a company, or Cabinet, with 21 members and a Labour Party with over 400 MPs,
yet all they ever see is this one man, whose preachy manner makes them sick.

Mr Blair knows exactly what is being said about him, for as he remarked
yesterday: "No politician can afford to be deaf to the electorate."

But his admirers will be heartened to know that after listening to his critics
and digesting their behaviour in the elections, he has decided to ignore them
and carry on with his one-man show.

As he put it yesterday, in the style of a sensitive, modern-minded but in the
end ruthless brigadier giving a lecture at Sandhurst: "In positions of
leadership you have to take what you believe to be the right decision for the
country. And that is not always the same as the popular decision."

This doctrine means that the more unpopular Mr Blair becomes, the more he can
tell himself, and us, that he is a brave and righteous leader.

Yet amid his heroic defiance of hostile criticism, the Prime Minister also
appeared to modify his vocabulary to take account of it.

He said that in the negotiations on the European Constitution, he will expect
other EU members to respect "our sovereignty" in vital areas such as tax, social
security, defence and foreign policy.

It is quite a thing to hear Mr Blair talk about British sovereignty, as well as
Iraqi sovereignty, and one may hazard a guess that he would not have used that
word if it had been the vote of the UK Independence Party, instead of the Labour
and Conservative parties, that fell to a record low in the European elections.

So it would be unfair to suggest that nothing came out of Mr Blair's press
conference yesterday, but it was still a rather frustrating occasion for any
journalist who wanted to pursue a line of inquiry, for each correspondent was
only allowed to put one question.

Many of the most experienced reporters have come to the conclusion that these
monthly press conferences are a waste of time. And there was even a moment when
Mr Blair seemed to lose his own train of thought as he listed yet again the
achievements of this Government which have made Britain such a paradise.

Could it be that the Prime Minister had accidentally lulled himself, instead of
his audience, into a coma? To give every appearance of openness, yet reveal
nothing that you do not intend to reveal, is a great skill, but such extreme
self-control comes at a heavy mental price.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              204 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

Howard is honest but unbelievable

BYLINE: By Robin Harris

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 20

LENGTH: 987 words

Encouraging local election results have demonstrated that the Tories are now
within reach of a general election victory. But the European result has also
shown how far they still must go to earn the electorate's trust. The same
message emerges from the latest ICM poll, which finds that Michael Howard's
rating for trustworthiness is even worse than Tony Blair's.

In the case of Mr Howard personally, that is unfair. No more instinctively
truthful, even tiresomely principled, politician sits in the Commons. If he is
distrusted, it is because what he has been saying is simply not credible. That
applies above all to Europe.

People accept that the Tories are hostile to further European integration. But
there is also an ingrained awareness of past muddle and duplicity. As Mr Howard
takes pleasure in repeating, the Tories took Britain into Europe and have
consistently campaigned for the country to stay there.

Margaret Thatcher's Bruges speech in 1988 marked an attempted
counter-revolution, aimed at reshaping the EC. But it was aborted because senior
Tories would not back her. The subsequent Maastricht Treaty, which Michael
Portillo has since helpfully suggested was to a great extent Mr Howard's
creation, marked a reversal of the old approach.

It is strange to reflect that Maastricht was sold at the time by John Major as a
means of returning authority to Britain through "subsidiarity". It is also worth
recalling that the only reason the Conservatives even promised a referendum on
the euro was that the Referendum Party forced them to do so. More recently, the
unanimously agreed Tory policy on Europe has been embarrassed silence. That is
what gave UKIP its chance. This discreditable, deceitful and demoralising Tory
trudge towards a European super-state has never prompted an apology from today's
Conservative leaders. Indeed, the attitudes that accompanied it are still all
too evident.

The Conservative Euro-election campaign was rightly criticised for its
counter-productive attacks on UKIP. But the nature of the debate into which Mr
Howard was foolish enough to plunge reveals more than tactical misjudgments.

Even before Central Office denounced UKIP as gadflies, and before Mr Howard
smeared them as extremists, it was clear that the Tory party risked mortally
offending its own supporters. UKIP voters were always likely to return to the
Conservative fold at the general election, as long as they were not enraged into
a lasting shift of allegiance.

Moreover, the latest opinion polls were already showing that 57 per cent of Tory
voters wanted to leave the EU - a policy that the Tory leadership now branded as
extreme. Mr Howard thus knowingly belittled the majority of his own party. The
interesting question is, "Why?" The answer is that the leadership remains more
interested in papering over cracks within the elite than it is in echoing the
views of members or the feelings of the electorate. This is bad politics.

While newspapers still write sloppily about "Tory splits" on Europe, these are
nowadays of no political significance, having joined "Tory cuts" and "Tory
sleaze" as a fatuous slogan with no resonance in reality. The Europhiles have
lost.

But the thought of disobliging comments from some halfforgotten relic of the
party's best-forgotten eclipse under John Major still apparently makes Mr Howard
break into a cold sweat.

So the Tory leadership today is as paralysed as ever on Europe. Mr Howard's
pronouncements on the subject might have seemed bold 10 years ago. Today they
strike the electorate as merely unrealistic.

There is not the slightest point in calling, as the Tory leader has done, for a
"Europe of nation states", a "more flexible and tolerant Europe", an "enterprise
Europe" or a "positive Europe" (whatever that may be). These things are not on
offer. Europe is driven by an economic and social doctrine of statism that is
fundamentally at odds with the liberal capitalism practised in the Anglo-Saxon
world. Indeed, it is because Mr Howard implicitly recognises this that he talks
about restoring national powers that have already been yielded to the EU.

He knows that, whether or not any new European Constitution is passed, Britain
will be dragged further and further into corporatism if present arrangements go
unchallenged.

Yet what finally makes the whole Tory position incredible is the refusal to
admit that the disengagement required will lead to a crisis. And it will. True,
continental Europe has no long-term interest in cutting relations, let alone
trade, with Britain. But in the short term, if Mr Howard should become prime
minister and try to embark on the programme that he has promised, he would find
Britain subject to a ruthless campaign of destabilisation from Brussels, Paris
and Berlin, with precious little sympathy from any other European capital.

Mr Howard would eventually get his way, because Britain is strong enough to act
defiantly - as long as he had not already tied his own hands.

This, though, is what Mr Howard insists on doing. To declare in advance that
Britain's interests would always be best served by staying in the EU is fatally
to weaken one's negotiating position. And even to claim to know, at this stage,
what precise relationship with other European states would best suit Britain's
requirements at some future date is altogether unrealistic.

Michael Howard cannot repair the damage done by three flawed leaders overnight.
But he need not perpetuate their evasions. He should set out a clear plan to
renegotiate Britain's relationship with Europe and speak frankly about the costs
and benefits of its pursuit. He may be surprised to discover that the electorate
is more rational and mature in its reaction than are some of his own colleagues.

Robin Harris is consultant director of Politeia. His pamphlet Why Britain Needs
a Foreign Policy is published by Politeia

Janet Daley is away

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              205 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

UKIP has got decent taste in wine, at least Notebook

BYLINE: By Andrew Marr

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 20

LENGTH: 624 words

No political significance should be read into the following statement: I was
pleased to see that UKIP celebrated its success with English sparkling wine.

Our local farmers' market sells wine from Wiltshire and, after years of giving
such stuff a wide berth, I've recently been drinking their driest pinot blanc
and their dry sparkling wine, a fiver and a tenner a bottle respectively.

No, it isn't fine wine, as from Burgundy, or even Tuscany. But it's good value
and a lot more drinkable than much of the table wine dumped on us from
Australia, America and France, too. If you tried British wine a decade ago and
thought, never again... have another go.

The UKIP press conference - press chaos is a better term - was old-fashioned
politics at its best: ragged, unpredictable and edgy.

Robert Kilroy-Silk certainly has that strange and under-analysed substance,
charisma; the rest of the newly elected MEPs found themselves clapping him
wildly, even though he isn't their leader.

Meanwhile, whether proportional voting is bad or good, it certainly reveals
Britain's underlying political diversity. UKIP, the Greens and Respect were
positively mainstream compared with some of the hopefuls who put up candidates.
Tens of thousands of us voted for minnow-movements, including the English
Democratic Party; Christian People's Alliance; the Countryside Party; Forward
Wales; the People's Party for Better Government; the Common Good; and even
Scottish Wind Watch (now there's a fine title for a party).

Then, of course, there were all the independents, from Martin Bell, who got
93,000 votes, to someone called Shadmyraine, who polled bottom of all the
candidates.

Every small party and every independent has a story: we are more varied,
disputatious and, frankly, more interesting than our traditional party system
suggests.

I've greatly enjoyed a new history of the English language by linguistics
professor David Crystal, which rather debunks the idea that Shakespeare was in a
class of his own as an inventor of words, though, from "abstemious" to "zany",
he has a pretty good record. It's just that lesser-known writers have such
wonderful records, too.

Take four contemporaries. John Marston can lay claim to "flop"; as well as
gloating, petulant and yawn. Sidney invented artist, hazardous and refreshing.
Spenser made more than 500 new words, including dismay, indignant, jovial,
thrilling and violin.

And Thomas Nashe was the inventor of many wonderful words including conundrum,
harlequin, multifarious, balderdash, earthling, silver-tongued and motherhood.
What a fantastic time it must have been when, if there wasn't a word to hand,
you simply made one up.

Outed by the Telegraph diary yesterday for confronting a mini-cab driver who
drove straight through a green pedestrian crossing, I hold my hands up. Yes, I
rapped on his window. Yes, he leapt out and we had a proper nose-to-nose moment.
But how often do people say, "Where's a policeman when you need one?", and how
wonderful to see two of them standing just there.

Against that, I am getting worried that I'm turning into a typical old grump.
Despite my picture at the top of this column, taken when I was a teenage
newspaper editor, in the flesh I am now positively ancient, lined, blotched,
haggard, and roughly the colour of red sandstone.

I'm also getting unpredictably cantankerous. I found myself earlier this week in
a quiet rage at an innocent Starbucks sign asking people not to smoke because it
spoilt "the quality of our coffee".

As it happens I don't smoke, don't like it and do like Starbucks coffee. But the
assumption that it was their coffee - and not the customers' - drove me wild. I
blame the glorious weather: we Scots cannot cope.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              206 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

Euro-sceptic noises don't work any more

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 44 words

SIR - Parked outside the EU regional count building in Didcot on Sunday night
was a UKIP battle bus, suitably adorned with posters encouraging us to get out
of Europe, and much more.

The vehicle? A left-hand-drive Renault Espace.

Peter Duval

High Wycombe, Bucks

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              207 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

MEPs find something to celebrate

BYLINE: Edited by Charlie MethvenEdited by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 21

LENGTH: 240 words

As Michael Howard conducted a sober election post-mortem examination with
Conservative MPs in the Commons on Monday night, his MEPs were living it up with
a champagne reception at the nearby St Stephen's Club.

"It had clearly been organised as a victory party and went ahead despite our
dismal performance," I'm told.

"Particularly inappropriate was the speech made by Jonathan Evans, the Tory
leader in Brussels, who hailed the result as a 'tremendous victory' in front of
a number of defeated colleagues."

But Evans is unapologetic.

"The feeling of negativity in the press clouded the fact that we won all three
elections last week," he says. "I was pointing out that, while UKIP got 12
Brussels seats, we actually won with 27."Only days after Ronald Reagan's
funeral, Spy learns of a campaign to have a statue erected in London in memory
of the former American president.

It is the brainchild of Conservative Way Forward, the Thatcherite Tory faction
that organised last month's dinner celebrating the 25th anniversary of Lady
Thatcher's 1979 election victory.

"It's still at the planning stage, but we think that it is only right that
President Reagan be remembered by the people of these islands for all he did to
win the Cold War," says Donal Blaney of CWF.

The group is planning to launch an appeal to raise the money for the statue,
although the thorny issue of where it might be located has yet to be broached.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              208 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 16, 2004

UK'S VETO THREAT OVER EU DEAL

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 326 words


TONY Blair will block plans for the controversial new European constitution
unless he is able to protect Britain's power to set tax, it emerged last night.

The Prime Minister will warn French and German leaders he will scupper the deal
at this week's crucial EU meeting in Brussels if his demands are not met.

Senior officials have revealed that Mr Blair believes changes to the
constitution on tax, social security, criminal justice and human rights are not
enough to win UK backing. The PM's tough new stance came after Labour suffered
massive losses in last week's local and European election.

Mr Blair and senior cabinet ministers are particularly concerned about the
historic success of the UK Independence party, which calls for Britain's
withdrawal from the EU.

But the PM will not get an easy ride as France and Germany already believe he
received enough concession at past negotiations.

EU leaders have set themselves until the end of June to agree the final
blueprint for the constitution.

Mr Blair has repeatedly insisted he will not allow his "red lines" on issues
such as tax and defence to be crossed and promised he would hold a referendum on
the final constitution if one is agreed.

But he faces a nationwide mutiny from a coalition of MPs, business and trade
union leaders if he signs up to the EU superstate. A number of rebel Labour MPs
are this week preparing to call for Britain to pull out of the EU altogether.

And trade unions have set up a body to put the case for Brussels to be stripped
of certain powers.

Mr Blair yesterday admitted tax and the charter of fundamental rights could be
sticking points for the EU as he heads to Brussels today.

He told reporters at his monthly press conference: "We are not prepared to have
anything that takes away the ability to make sure our industrial laws in this
country remain as flexible as they are now.

"We think that has stood us in good stead."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              209 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 16, 2004

MAIN PARTIES MUST LISTEN TO THE VOTERS ON EUROPE

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 193 words


IT appears that both major parties will not be changing their policies on
Europe.

Blair has reiterated his stance on us being at the 'heart of Europe'.

Howard, for his part, is sticking by the 'in Europe, but not ruled by Europe'
position.

Have they both learned nothing from the European election results last week?

They dismiss the results as a protest vote at their peril.

Blair has harped on long enough about convincing the general public of the
benefits of European integration, but has failed so far to achieve this.

Howard has trouble convincing his own party members, never mind the electorate,
about his thinking on Europe.

Both should note that the European elections were a clear statement by the
voting public that w e do not want closer integration w ith Europe.

Judging by the various results and turnouts, other countries don't want it
either. We can live without the EU - Norway is a prime example.

Let's see the politicians try something novel - listen to people on Europe, then
go and do as they ask.

It's simple, easy and it's amazing how many votes it attracts. Ask Ukip.

Andrew T Carr, Devizes

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              210 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 16, 2004

Comment & Analysis: The bulldog's real message: Churchill appreciated what
today's UKip voters have yet to learn. Britain cannot remain isolated from the
continent

BYLINE: Vernon Bogdanor

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 986 words


One hundred years ago this month, a 29-year-old Tory backbencher, Winston
Churchill, crossed the floor of the house to fight for free trade. Favouring as
he did a liberal rather than a centralised and self-sufficient empire, he could
hardly remain in a party that supported Joe Chamberlain's campaign for an
imperial tariff. He objected also to the aliens bill, restricting Jewish
immigration, which he saw as an attempt by the Tories "to gratify a small but
noisy section of their supporters and to purchase a little popularity in the
constituencies by dealing harshly with a number of unfortunate aliens who have
no votes".

Crossing the floor was of course an offence against the tribal spirit of British
politics. Yet the Conservatives derived comfort from the view of a contemporary
that Churchill could "be safely counted upon to make him self quite as
disagreeable on the Liberal side" as he had to the Tories; and in 1924 he
rejoined his old party, declaring that "anyone can rat but it takes a certain
amount of ingenuity to re-rat".

The rigidity of party lines is a comparatively recent phenomenon in British
politics. Before 1939, it was quite common for groups of MPs to change sides
when new political issues stimulated new alignments. At the beginning of the
20th century, it was the Churchillian Conservatives who crossed the floor.

Later, as the Liberal party broke up, its MPs defected both to the left and the
right. Even party leaders switched allegiance. Gladstone began his political
career as, in Macaulay's famous words, "the rising hope of the stern, unbending
Tories", but ended it on the radical wing of the Liberal party. Disraeli took
the opposite route, as did Joe Chamberlain, beginning as a radical but ending as
a Tory imperialist. Lloyd George moved swiftly from peace-time radicalism to
coalition with the Tories during the first world war, while in 1931, in the
midst of the depression, Ramsay MacDonald, Labour's first prime minister, formed
a coalition with Conservatives and Liberals.

Since 1945, by contrast, our party system has become frozen, and when, in the
1980s, the Liberal/SDP Alliance sought to "break the mould" of British politics,
it succeeded only in ending the careers of nearly all of the MPs who joined it.
It is doubtful, however, if tribal politics has served Britain better than the
more fluid system of 100 years ago. Today, it locks together incompatibles -
Europhiles and Europhobes in the Tory party, traditional socialists together
with New Labour - in loveless and artificial marriages. Yet, if the parties are
tribal, the people are not. During the postwar era, they have become
increasingly detached from parties, and have come to regard politicians less as
saviours than as plumbers, problem-solvers rather than purveyors of grand
designs. The political system, however, has failed to adapt to social change -
little wonder if there is a disinclination to turn out to vote.

To have a mind, it has been said, is to have a cross-bench mind. Churchill
certainly had a cross-bench mind. During the 1951 election campaign, he spoke
for a Liberal candidate, his old friend, Lady Violet Bonham Carter: after the
election, he offered the Liberals places in government even though the
Conservatives had an absolute majority in the Commons. Towards the end of his
life, he encountered a Labour MP in the House of Commons lift. "What party do
you belong to, young man?" Churchill inquired. "I'm Labour, sir" was the reply.
"I'm a Liberal," Churchill retorted, "always have been." The MP was never sure
whether Churchill was ga-ga or whether he really meant it.

Churchill was loyal to causes rather than party. His prime loyalty was to the
unity of European civilisation, a civilisation in which, whatever the material
inequalities, the liberal amenities and decencies could be taken for granted.
Joe Chamberlain's empire could exist in splendid isolation from the continent.
Churchill's empire, by contrast, would strengthen British influence in Europe.

Churchill appreciated what today's Conservatives too often forget, and the
supporters of Ukip have never learned, that Britain could not remain isolated
from the continent. Churchill could never have spoken, as Neville Chamberlain,
Joe's son, did in 1938, of the Czechoslovak crisis as "a quarrel in a far-away
country between people of whom we know nothing". He would have welcomed
enlargement of the European Union as a recreation of the civilisation of his
Edwardian youth, a guarantee that the continent he loved would never again be
ravaged by war, nor divided by a totalitarian ideology.

Much ink has been spilt on Churchill's attitude towards European unity. What is
clear is that he had no objection in principle to the pooling of sovereignty.
Indeed, in June 1940, during the darkest days of the war, he proposed a
"declaration of Anglo-French union", providing that "France and Britain shall no
longer be two nations, but one Franco-British union". Sadly, this glorious
gesture came too late to avert the French collapse. Later, in 1950, he told the
Commons: "The Conservative and Liberal parties declare that national sovereignty
is not inviolable and that it may be resolutely diminished for the sake of all
the men in all the lands finding their way home together".

The belief that Britain was a European as well as an imperial power, so that to
link Britain more closely with the continent would increase British influence,
not reduce it, forms the leitmotif of Churchill's political career.

Pondering the lessons of Churchill's defection is more than an exercise in
nostalgia. For all around us the echoes of the past can still be heard. Indeed,
it is only by being attentive to them that we will be able successfully to
confront the problems of today.

Vernon Bogdanor is professor of government at Oxford University

bogdanorvernon@ hotmail.com


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              211 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 16, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Nothing Blair says suggests he has learned the lessons After
last week's disaster, more of the same will simply make things worse

BYLINE: :Polly Toynbee

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1159 words


A sombre prime minister faced the monthly Downing Street press conference
yesterday. There was no bounce, no cockiness, no blokey "y'know"s, which is
hardly surprising. As the brutal facts sink in, super Thursday's results look
worse and worse. Only 10% of the voters came out to cast their X for Labour,
10%! And yet, on that reckoning, Tony Blair is still destined to win a
comfortable victory next election. Many detest him, but never mind, so long as
they still hate the other lot a crucial bit more. Political cynicism is in order
when the nasty truth is that Ukip saved his bacon.

Did that sombre demeanour suggest a chastened prime minister? No. However, the
past year has changed a man whose besetting sin was liking to be liked. Once his
antennae were too well-tuned to the music of popular opinion. Now he's like an
aging relative who refuses to wear a hearing aid. He will lead, he will not bend
and he will do what he thinks right, even if he's the only one who thinks it. He
is deaf to all but like-minded key advisers.

No doubt, the swelling cacophony of advice from every side is an unmanageable
wall of sound: every minister and MP you talk to has their own passionate
conviction about what he should do now. There is no clear electoral signpost
pointing the way to win back votes that fled in equal measure to rightwing
parties on asylum and Europe and leftwing parties on Iraq. That gives him the
dangerous freedom to stand there as he did yesterday and announce - nothing. No
change, just more of the same, steady as she sinks.

To be sure, beneath this studiedly calm surface there is frantic paddling inside
Downing Street. There is talk of rushing out the comprehensive spending review
early, which would be a shameless and damaging bit of panic. The three-yearly
CSR was designed to make spending decisions dignified, long-term and
well-planned. Hurrying out its cornucopia of fat numbers would destroy that
gravitas, inviting sneering disbelief instead of cheers for good news.

The hunting bill may be thrown as red meat to keep the faithful party hounds
happy. But that will stir up no end of countryside trouble on a peripheral issue
for which the public and party may rapidly lose enthusiasm as the time-wasting
prospect of jailing masters of foxhounds becomes a reality. Meanwhile, the
gambling bill will erupt into serious trouble unless someone stops Tessa Jowell
turning Britain into the off-shore Las Vegas of Europe, with mega-casinos
destined for the poorest areas. MPs rarely notice things until they reach the
Commons and this should cause ructions.

Eager for closure on Iraq, there is Downing Street talk of some kind of apology
- no, an explanation - over the missing WMD. But if that ever happens it won't
come until the Butler report next month. Lord Butler is a canny old mandarin who
will want to avoid suffering the same drubbing for "whitewash" as the naive Lord
Hutton, so he's expected to deliver sufficient rebuke to the prime minister over
his use of intelligence to sting. Can a semi-admission of some mistakes lay Iraq
to rest? Can peace and democracy on the Baghdad streets? No, because "Iraq" is
about grave error of judgment and arrogant obstinacy. It's a Blair character
thing that will ignore any actual Baghdad good news. As ever, any good news will
vanish from the headlines but "Iraq" will never go away.

Winded, the Labour party is absorbing the aftershocks of these elections. As
their leader addressed Labour MPs on Monday night, there was no obvious appetite
for regime change but everywhere there is pressure for a wind change. These MPs
suffered a cardiac arrest in their heartlands that left some 450 more of their
own councillors vapourised. There are now half as many as there were in 1996,
stripping out whole cadres of local activists. That matters: these results show
that, wherever there was the hardest work on the ground, results were far
better. Old-fashioned argument on doorsteps does get people into the polling
booths. Reminding them in person of all Labour has done is the only counter to
hostile press lies about tax credits and crime, the NHS and school improvements.

It will take time to gauge the mood of MPs, but after a summer of gloomy
reflection on this second term, the party conference in the autumn will look
like a morticians' convention unless by then there is a strong third-term
prospectus. More of the same will not do. There is extraordinary unity on what
is going wrong. This, they say, is what Blair should stop doing:

Stop talking about radical reform of the public services. It sounds like a
threat and it sends out the wrong message. It suggests the Mail is right and
everything must be failing. Instead, tour the country talking up all the good
school and hospital results. Give up abroad and visit the myriad regeneration
projects never reported. Hammer on about success, not failure. When all people
hear is the need for reform and cutting civil service waste they think the
Tories are right and Labour is pouring tax money down the drain. The truth is
good and getting better by the month. So why can't Blair get it out there?

Stop muddying the clear blue water with the Tories. Labour is for public
services, Tories are for privatising, outsourcing and subsidising the few at the
expense of the many. Talk up the value of the universal, let the Tories talk up
individual privilege. No more abstract theorising about "choice" and
"personalisation": instead express policy as concrete proposals on how
particular services will reach people better.

Stop any new outbreak of war between No 10 and No 11. Paranoid accusations are
emanating from No 10 again, stirring up anger in No 11. (Mandelson is a cause of
grief in both camps.) Blair and Brown must be seen together often, smiling,
agreeing and congratulating each other. Whenever handover day comes, that mutual
grin will matter most for Labour's lasting survival.

Do nothing more to provoke Labour's remaining supporters. Stay away from
grandiose structural reforms at the top. Concentrate on micro-improvements in
delivery. But remember that ministers are not managers but politicians. Make
sure they spend this 11-month run-in to the election on politics, rousing up
their sectors. What works is OK, but politics means showing it works only
because of Labour policy.

Keep reminding grumbling public servants how much they need Labour. There is no
gratitude to be had from voters: those using hospitals and primary schools now
didn't seven years ago, so comparisons with that time are useless. They need to
be inspired about the future - the "forward offer", as Blair put it to MPs in
his naffest sales-rep speak.

Will he stop infuriating his own side to no gain in middle England? Nothing he
says yet suggests it. We wait to see his "forward offer", but with no reason for
optimism about lessons learned yet.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              212 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 16, 2004

Letter: Bush factor

BYLINE: Dominic Rayner

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 78 words


You say (Poll shows Ukip will split Tory vote, June 15) that with 34% of the
vote at the next election, Labour would have a majority of 110 seats. While such
anti-Tory safeguards may appear attractive, a landslide win on only 34% of the
vote would make even Bush look democratically legitimate. Our electoral system
is not suitable for the five (or six) party politics we now have. Is it too late
to change for the next election?

Dominic Rayner

Leeds


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              213 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 16, 2004

Blair strikes doubtful note on European constitution: Britain must set its own
labour laws, says PM

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour: Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 530 words


Tony Blair yesterday struck a sceptical note ahead of this week's negotiations
on the proposed European constitution, warning that he would not accept anything
that interfered with Britain's right to set its own labour laws.

Speaking after his drubbing in the European elections, including the 2.7m votes
for the UK Independence party, he said no politician could afford to be deaf to
the electorate's voice, and insisted he had already listened - by promising a
referendum on the constitution.

The prime minister argued at his monthly press conference that withdrawal would
be an "extraordinary act of foolishness" for Britain.

He described the proposed new constitution as a good idea, for technocratic
reasons, in a Europe of 25 states, but offered little wider enthusiasm for the
project. Instead, Europe should get back to the fundamental issues of security
and economic growth, he said.

He also promised a crackdown on unnecessary regulations coming out of Brussels,
adding that this represented a strong feeling across Europe. He warned that
Britain would not accept the charter of fundamental rights, within the
constitution, having legal force to make Britain's industrial laws less
flexible.

Britain is insisting that a statement in the draft text explaining that the
constitution does not give EU citizens new rights must be in the text itself
rather than just the pre-amble. The latest draft issued by the Irish presidency
last Saturday set out three different options, including the one proposed by
Britain.

Mr Blair explained: "We are not prepared to have anything that takes away the
ability to make sure our industrial laws in this country remain as flexible as
they are now."

The disagreement over the weighting of votes at the council of ministers,
including what will represent a blocking minority for issues to be decided by
qualified majority voting, has not been resolved.

Hopes that the Polish government would follow the Spanish lead and be more
flexible in the talks have so far been dashed, largely because the Poles do not
have a government or a fresh mandate to be more flexible.

Nevertheless, Mr Blair said he was optimistic that an agreement would be
reached. He said: "We want a Europe that makes Britain stronger, safer and
richer and which respects our sovereignty in vital areas such as tax, social
security, defence, foreign policy and key areas of criminal procedural law.

"What I will not do is marginalise Britain in Europe for its own sake. It is
massively in Britain's interest to be at the heart of Europe, in terms of jobs
and trade and political influence. It would be an act of extraordinary
foolishness for us . . . in the early 21st century to withdraw from the biggest
political alliance in the world and the biggest economic market right on our
doorstep.

"If we want Europe to get things done on the key issues - which in my view are
the economy and security - how is Europe going to do that with a six-month
rotating presidency when you might have a string of very small countries that
have to handle the whole business of the EU over a period of years? It would be
very, very hard."


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              214 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 16, 2004

Kennedy blames PM for Ukip rise

BYLINE: Sarah Hall: Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 417 words


Charles Kennedy blamed Tony Blair - not Michael Howard - for the rise of Ukip
yesterday, as he accused him of wasting his premiership by consistently failing
to make the pro-European case.

The Liberal Democrat leader rebuked the prime minister for using "lower-case
eurosceptic language" to appease Eurosceptics, and said his "delay and
prevarication" over key European issues was "substantially to blame" for the
success of the rightwing party, which matched the Lib Dems' 12 MEPs in the Euro
elections.

Ukip's gains should "galvanise" all political parties to sell the case for
Europe, he added, but warned the Lib Dems would only play a full role in this if
not offered a "walk-on part" but a "top-table" place in strategic and political
decision-making.

In an interview with the Guardian, Mr Kennedy also defended his decision to call
on voters to treat the European elections as a referendum on Iraq, and insisted
he had put the pro-European case at every opportunity. But he said the
government's lack of direction made his job difficult: "There's a limit to what
(I) can achieve when the press is not sufficiently signed up, when the
government is not sufficiently signed up, when a lot of business and commerce
leadership, short of a political lead from the government . . . are not going to
put their heads above the parapet."

He added: "One of the great failings of the Blair premiership . . . is that he
had the ball at his feet from day one with Europe and he failed to run with it
and to score the goals that could have been scored."

The prime minister had had six or seven years to argue the case for the single
currency and prepare the ground for the constitution, but instead the government
had "tried to . . . use lower-case eurosceptical language . . . to appease
Eurosceptics . . . while at the same time trying to give the wink that it's
absolutely essential we be at the heart of Europe".

He warned: "It's getting very late to sell Europe. Time is running out and the
challenge has not been made any easier after so many years of delay and
prevarication, especially by the prime minister".

Mr Kennedy, whose party was narrowly pushed into fourth place by Ukip in the
Euro elections, denied the Lib Dems would be damaged. Instead, Ukip would
provoke further bitterness among Conservatives, and take their voters. "Many of
their natural supporters, who are very Eurosceptic, now have another home to go
to," he said.

guardian.co.uk/politics/libdems


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              215 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 16, 2004

Euro elections 2004 Final results

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1005 words


East Midlands

Electorate 3,241,566 Turnout 43.40%

Elected Roger Helmer (C); Chris Heaton-Harris (C); Phillip Whitehead (Lab); Bill
Newton Dunn (LD); Robert Kilroy-Silk (Ukip); Derek Clark (Ukip)

C 371,362 (26.40%)

Ukip 366,498 (26.05%)

Lab 294,918 (20.97%)

LD 181,964 (12.94%)

BNP 91,860 (6.53%)

Green 76,633 (5.45%)

Respect 20,009 (1.42%)

Independent Rogers 2,615 (0.19%)

Independent Humanist 847 (0.06%)

C maj 4,864 (0.35%)

15.78% swing C to Ukip

Eastern

Electorate 4,137,374 Turnout 36.50%

Elected Geoffrey Van Orden (C); Robert Sturdy (C); Christopher Beazley (C);
Richard Howitt (Lab); Andrew Duff (LD); Jeffrey Titford (UKIP); Tom Wise (UKIP)

C 465,526 (30.82%)

UKIP 296,160 (19.61%)

Lab 244,929 (16.22%)

LD 211,378 (14.00%)

Ind 93,028 (6.16%)

Green 84,068 (5.57%)

BNP 65,557 (4.34%)

English Democrats P 26,807 (1.78%)

Respect 13,904 (0.92%)

Independent Naisbitt 5,137 (0.34%)

Prolife 3,730 (0.25%)

C maj 169,366 (11.21%)

11.32% swing C to UKIP

London

Electorate 5,054,957; Turnout 37.30%

Elected Theresa Villiers (C); John Bowis (C); Charles Tannock (C); Claude Moraes
(Lab); Mary Honeyball (Lab); Robert Evans (Lab); Sarah Ludford (LD); Jean
Lambert (Green); Gerard Batten (UKIP)

C 504,941 (26.78%)

Lab 466,584 (24.75%)

LD 288,790 (15.32%)

Ukip 232,633 (12.34%)

Green 158,986 (8.43%)

Respect 91,175 (4.84%)

BNP 76,152 (4.04%)

Christian Peoples All. 45,038 (2.39%)

English Democrats P 15,945 (0.85%)

Peoples P for Better Govt 5,205 (0.28%)

C maj 38,357 (2.03%)

2.18% swing Lab to C

North East

Electorate 1,911,562 Turnout 40.83%

Elected Martin Callanan (C); Stephen Hughes (Lab); Fiona Hall (LD)

Lab 266,057 (34.09%)

C 144,969 (18.57%)

LD 138,791 (17.78%)

UKIP 94,887 (12.16%)

BNP 50,249 (6.44%)

Ind 39,658 (5.08%)

Green 37,247 (4.77%)

Respect 8,633 (1.11%)

Lab maj 121,088 (15.51%)

0.37% swing C to Lab

North West

Electorate 5,151,964 Turnout 40.86%

Elected Den Dover (C); David Sumberg (C); Sir Robert Atkins (C); Gary Titley
(Lab); Arlene McCarthy (Lab) ; Terry Wynn (Lab); Chris Davies (LD); Saj Karim
(LD); John Whittaker (Ukip)

Lab 576,388 (27.38%)

C 509,446 (24.20%)

LD 335,063 (15.92%)

Ukip 247,158 (11.74%)

BNP 134,958 (6.41%)

Green 117,393 (5.58%)

Lib 96,325 (4.58%)

English Democrats P 34,110 (1.62%)

Respect 24,636 (1.17%)

Countryside 11,283 (0.54%)

Prolife 10,084 (0.48%)

Ind 8,318 (0.40%)

Lab maj 66,942 (3.18%)

2.06% swing C to Lab

South East

Electorate 6,048,349 Turnout 36.50%

Elected Daniel Hannan (C); Nirj Deva (C); James Elles (C); Richard Ashworth (C);
Peter Skinner (Lab); Chris Huhne (LD); Emma Nicholson (LD); Caroline Lucas
(Green); Nigel Farage (Ukip); Ashley Mote (Ukip)

C 776,370 (35.17%)

UKIP 431,111 (19.53%)

LD 338,342 (15.33%)

Lab 301,398 (13.65%)

Green 173,351 (7.85%)

BNP 64,877 (2.94%)

Senior 42,861 (1.94%)

English Democrats P 29,126 (1.32%)

Respect 13,426 (0.61%)

Peace 12,572 (0.57%)

Christian Peoples All. 11,733 (0.53%)

Prolife 6,579 (0.30%)

Ind 5,671 (0.26%)

C maj 345,259 (15.64%)

9.54% swing C to UKIP

South West

Electorate 3,852,708 Turnout 37.59%

Elected Neil Parish (C); Caroline Jackson (C); Giles Chichester (C); Glyn Ford
(Lab); Graham Watson (LD); Graham Booth (Ukip); Roger Knapman (Ukip)

C 457,371 (31.58%)

Ukip 326,784 (22.56%)

LD 265,619 (18.34%)

Lab 209,908 (14.49%)

Green 103,821 (7.17%)

BNP 43,653 (3.01%)

Countryside 30,824 (2.13%)

Respect 10,437 (0.72%)

C maj 130,587 (9.02%)

11.02% swing C to UKIP

Wales

Electorate 2,218,649 Turnout 41.36%

Elected Jonathan Evans (C); Glenys Kinnock (Lab); Eluned Morgan (Lab); Jill
Evans (PC)

Lab 297,810 (32.45%)

C 177,771 (19.37%)

PC 159,888 (17.42%)

Ukip 96,677 (10.53%)

LD 96,116 (10.47%)

Green 32,761 (3.57%)

BNP 27,135 (2.96%)

Forward 17,280 (1.88%)

Christian Democrat P 6,821 (0.74%)

Respect 5,427 (0.59%)

Lab maj 120,039 (13.08%)

1.99% swing C to Lab

West Midlands

Electorate 3,996,130 Turnout 35.96%

Elected Philip Bushill-Matthews (C); Philip Bradbourn (C); Malcolm Harbour (C);
Michael Cashman (Lab); Neena Gill (Lab); Liz Lynne (LD); Mike Nattrass (Ukip)

C 392,937 (27.34%)

Lab 336,613 (23.42%)

Ukip 251,366 (17.49%)

LD 197,479 (13.74%)

BNP 107,794 (7.50%)

Green 73,991 (5.15%)

Respect 34,704 (2.41%)

Pensioners 33,501 (2.33%)

Common Good 8,650 (0.60%)

C maj 56,324 (3.92%)

2.99% swing C to Lab

Yorkshire & The Humber

Electorate 3,694,415 Turnout 42.58%

Elected Timothy Kirkhope (C); Edward McMillan-Scott (C); Linda McAvan (Lab);
Richard Corbett (Lab); Diana Wallis (LD); Godfrey Bloom (Ukip)

Lab 413,213 (26.27%)

C 387,369 (24.62%)

LD 244,607 (15.55%)

Ukip 228,666 (14.54%)

BNP 126,538 (8.04%)

Green 90,337 (5.74%)

Respect 29,865 (1.90%)

English Democrats P 24,068 (1.53%)

No Description 14,762 (0.94%)

All for Green Socialism 13,776 (0.88%)

Lab maj 25,844 (1.64%)

3.48% swing C to Lab

Scotland

Electorate 3,809,111 Turnout 30.9%

Elected Struan Stevenson (C) ; John Purvis (C); David Martin (Lab); Catherine
Stihler (Lab); Elspeth Attwooll (LD); Ian Hudghton (SNP); Alyn Smith (SNP)

Lab 310,865 (26.42%)

SNP 231,505 (19.67%)

C 209,028 (17.76%)

LD 154,178 (13.10%)

Green 79,695 (6.77%)

Ukip 78,828 (6.70%)

Scottish Socialist P 61,356 (5.21%)

Operation Christian Vote 21,056 (1.79%)

BNP 19,427 (1.65%)

Wind Watch 7,255 (0.62%)

Ind 3,624 (0.31%)

Lab maj 79,360 (6.74%)

2.61% swing from SNP to Lab

Northern Ireland

Electorate 1,072,669 Turnout 51.72%

Elected Jim Allister (DUP); Bairbre de Brun (SF); Jim Nicholson (UUP)

First preference votes

DUP 175,761 (31.9%)

SF 144,541 (26.3%)

UUP 91,164 (16.6%)

SDLP 87,559 (15.9%)

Ind 36,270 (6.6%)

Soc Env 9,172 (1.6%)

Green 4,810 (0.9%)


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 16, 2004

G2: Talking dirty to woo the voters

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1158 words


'I would like," the cab driver told me on the day before the elections, "to
shoot that Tony Blair. And his wife. Shoot both of 'em." Was there any
particular reason for this animosity? "Yeah. Because he's a lying, cheating
scumbag. And she lied to us too about them flats. He lied about Iraq, he lied
about all these migrants, who - frankly - have come over here and are taking the
mickey, getting the free housing. And Europe. Don't get me started."

Starting was not the problem, this bloke was so angry. Angry in a way that was
well beyond argument. I could have asked him whether he wasn't better off than
seven years ago, whether his family wasn't more likely to be in work, whether
the local school wasn't . . . Well, you get the point. As far as he was
concerned he was "des petits, des matraques, des spolies, des lamines, des
humilies", the ripped-off, lied-to little men and women who, 50 years ago,
turned to an obscure French demagogue and thereby coined the word, "Poujadism",
to describe modern populism. Everything, as far as my driver was concerned, was
shit.

His answer was Ukip. I had wondered whose answer it was, since the polls were
showing heavy Ukip support, and yet no one I knew or met thought that the party
of Kilroy, Collins and disgraced former Tory MPs was anything but a vaudeville
turn. How could you appeal to the ordinary voter's sense of the authentic by
presenting them with a gaggle of chemically-bronzed, face-lifted, tooth-whitened
prison-penitents?

By talking dirty. In the Euro-elections more than 30% of the electorate voted
for smaller populist and neo-populist parties (this figure includes the Greens,
and I'll explain why later), and more than half of those for Ukip. Ukip's two
main platform planks concerned the way in which the European Union was making
life bad for Brits, and the ways in which migrants were making life bad for
Brits.

The EU stuff was familiar; there would be loads of fish if it weren't for
Brussels, no one would tell us what to do, and we would be able to spend all our
membership fees on hospitals. The immigration stuff was more of an eye-opener.
Laying out the Ukip policy on asylum and migration, one M Cassidy reassured
party website users that the problem was population density. "It is not a
question of race," he wrote, "but space." And then, in the next paragraph he
complained that, "Our society is being transformed without any consultation and
against the interests and wishes of the British people." So it wasn't a question
of space after all.

There followed this classic. "We (the British government) place the interests of
asylum seekers above the interests of our own people and especially the elderly,
many of whom have been ejected from their care homes to make way for asylum
seekers. The shock of being moved leads to premature deaths among many of those
so ejected." In a subtle reworking of "they rape our women and drink our wine",
we now had "they kill our old folk".

That's why Ukip, if elected to government, would withdraw the UK from the 1951
UN convention on refugees, from the European convention on human rights, and
from the Dublin convention. "In future, Ukip will return all immigrants without
proper documentation to whichever country they entered the UK from." Which
should make for some interesting moments in various ports and airports when the
target countries, now not linked by the EU, decide that they don't want our
returned immigrants. "Nor will Ukip be cowed by a whole host of so-called human
rights campaigners or the politically correct." I bet they won't.

With much the same formal approach to immigration (but with a refreshingly
direct informal approach), the BNP also did quite well in the Euro-elections.
One of their new councillors in Epping Forest turns out to be a "Jewish
housewife", whose own desire to leave the EU and stop migration seems to have
been greater than her understanding that her party leader, Nick Griffin, is a
genuine 30-carat, old-style, racial anti-semite of the Streicher school.

But what the BNP and Ukip have in common is the psychological suggestion that
"ordinary" people are being betrayed by the political class. They are paying too
much fuel tax, too much council tax, they are being pushed around by foreigners
and outsiders, they are having stuff done to them and have become victims in
their own countries. They are aggrieved, and their grievance, their unhappiness,
has external causes - scapegoats - that can be identified and expelled or left.

That's why I would classify Respect as a populist (though not in any way racist)
movement. Its failure to win a seat disguises a very strong showing in parts of
London with large Muslim communities. But these communities were appealed to on
a similar emotional basis to the anti-EU campaign of Ukip. The suggestion was
made, over and over again, that the Muslim community was uniquely victimised,
targeted, oppressed and discriminated against. Evidence that contradicted such a
psychology, such as the Nato intervention in Kosovo or government efforts to
build links with the community, was ignored.

Meanwhile the more palatable Green party was making its pitch partly on the
populist grounds that "they" (the corporations) are poisoning "us". Consider,
"The Green party believes Real Progress means real food; food we can trust. We
want a GM-free Britain." But what is there about GM food that we can't trust?
There is no evidence whatsoever that there is a health risk. The problem is the
threat to biodiversity from growing GM crops themselves - but that, of course,
isn't scary enough. During the obesity scare of two weeks ago the Green MEP
Caroline Lucas was on radio furiously opining that it was all the government's
fault that we were too fat, because it was in hock to the food industry. Not
"your" fault, but theirs.

Fine. Even if you buy my notion that there is a similar mindset at work here,
the question arises as to why this should all happen now. Why has there been a
breakdown in trust and contact between the political establishment and a large
section of the people? Especially since I am contending that things aren't
really that bad.

A clue lies in the language. The idea of everything being somehow false,
everything going to the dogs, becoming chaotic, worse than it was, out of
control, of ordinary people being "lied" to, the whole language of populism is
now also the standard language of much of the media: of almost all of it,
broadsheet and tabloid, and creeping into broadcasting. Nothing is ever
achieved, nothing gets better. Postal ballots that push up turnout are derided
by the very journalists who ought to support them, amid spurious tales of
corruption.

It's all to cock. We in the media have been telling people that for years now.
And when it's all to cock you need a strong hand to fix things.

David Aaronovitch will appear again next Wednesday


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

THE POUNDS 23BN QUESTION;
 AFTER UKIP'S SHOCK SUCCESSES IN THE EUROPEAN ELECTIONS, TONY BLAIR

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words


Economy

l Britain would suffer a permanent loss of pounds 23bn a year if we pulled out,
says the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, an independent
think-tank.

l Economic growth would be lower by 2.5 per cent, estimates show.

l Withdrawal could trigger a loss of confidence in UK economic prospects,
possibly causing a run on the pound, leading to a rise in inflation through
higher import costs, unemployment and interest rates.

l More volatile interest rates would add to the risks of boom and bust in the
housing markets.

Travel

l EU airline deregulation has halved the cost of flights, causing a massive
travel expansion. EU rules now mean airlines must offer compensation if they
overbook.

l Cheaper flights - and a strong economy - have contributed to a massive
increase in British people owning second homes in EU countries. Withdrawal could
make house purchasing more difficult.

l 100,000 Britons work in EU countries and 450,000 Britons live in them,
including 200,000 pensioners.

l British holidaymakers have the right to free health care in any member state
with the E111 form.

Social reform

l Withdrawal from the European Union would reverse fundamental employment and
social welfare rights that UK citizens have enjoyed for more than 30 years.

l We could wave goodbye to EU laws tackling discrimination. Workers would be
unable to bring sex, race or disability claims against their employers, unless
new legislation was drafted, which could take years.

l The 48-hour working week, regular breaks between shifts and a minimum 11-hour
rest between shifts would also be obsolete. There would no longer be a statutory
four-weeks annual holiday. Bosses would be free to force their employees to work
longer hours with fewer breaks.

Trade

l British businesses enjoy tariff-free access to the largest market in the
world; 55 per cent of the UK's trade is with the EU. Every year the UK imports
pounds 129bn worth of goods from its EU partners and exports pounds 105bn to
them; the total is more than half of all our global trade.

l In contrast, trade with the US is pounds 52bn annually, about 12 per cent of
the total. Not in these figures are services, such as banking and insurance,
worth pounds 160bn a year, which might be hit by withdrawal.

l Some 3.2 million jobs are directly associated with the export of goods and
services to EU. About 750,000 businesses trade with our EU partners.

l We need the EU more than it needs us: 9.5 per cent of the UK economy is trade
with the rest of the EU; the reverse figure is 2.4 per cent.

l If Britain withdrew, businesses would have to obey EU regulations to trade
with Europe, without power to amend them.

l Inward investment, which has fallen since the UK stayed outside the euro,
would fall further outside the EU.

Law & the constitution

l An army of lawyers and two or three full parliamentary terms would be needed
to disentangle Britain from Europe.

l The Government would have to repeal of hundreds of EU directives in UK law.

l Britain would have to recall its judges from the European Court of Justice,
losing a forum for settling arguments.

l British representation at the European Parliament and Commission would end.
Trading laws that would affect us would be passed without consideration of their
effect on British interests

Environment

l There are more than 200 EU laws on the environment ranging from recycling to
clean beaches.

l Catalytic converters would not have been made compulsory without the EU and
there would have been no ban on leaded petrol.

l The 1994 EU habitats directive bans interference in the breeding places of
endangered species. It has been used by campaigners against planned roads,
housing and industrial developments, forming a key part of opposition to
Associated British Ports' plans to build a container port at Dibden Bay in
Hampshire, which was turned down in April.

l Wild birds in Britain are protected by the EU birds directive. The RSPB is
using the directive to fight plans for a container port at Bathside Bay in
Essex.

l The EU bathing water directive has led to a big improvement in beaches

l EU curbs on sulphur emissions from French and Spanish power stations limit
acid rain in Britain.

l Noise pollution from cars has fallen by 85 per cent since 1970.

Fishing

l In the last round of EU fishing talks, Britain got a 45 per cent cut in cod
quotas and fishermen were limited to 15 days at sea a month over depleted fish
stocks. Withdrawal would not result in more fish in the sea and fishermen would
still have to negotiate with their EU counterparts for fishing rights, but from
outside the club of the Common Fisheries Policy.

l The problem of over-fishing would be critical. As in Canada, a lack of strong
controls could cause stocks such as cod to collapse, potentially damaging the
environment, and, in the long run, the fishing industry.

Defence

l Withdrawal would exclude Britain from future peace-keeping in crisis-hit
regions.

l It would deal a heavy blow to Britain's influence in international military
planning by symbolising isolationism.

l Contracts for military hardware would be threatened, as would thousands of
jobs.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              218 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

EUROPE DEBATE: BLAIR HAS ONLY POUNDS 200,000 TO SELL EU

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN, MARIE WOOLF AND STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Tony Blair is
confident any constitution deal on Europe will preserve Britain's red lines' AP

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 828 words


TONY BLAIR yesterday said he wanted to strike a deal on a new European
constitution at the Brussels summit this weekend, but the Government has only
pounds 200,000 in its budget to promote Europe in this country.

The Independent learnt that the Foreign Office has the money in its coffers to
pay for pro-European propaganda before the general election. Foreign Office
ministers are demanding more in the Treasury spending review.

This disclosure will fuel criticism of Mr Blair's failure to give a stronger
lead on Europe in the wake of last week's gains by the UK Independence Party.
Ministers fear that, after UKIP's huge gains, the Government will find itself
outgunned by wealthy Eurosceptics eager for a "no" vote on the constitution.

The minuscule Foreign Office budget - the equivalent of four days spending on
British security contractors in Iraq - has been condemned by Labour MEPs who say
it is inadequate for promoting the EU to the British people.

The MEP Gary Titley, who was yesterday re-elected as head of the Labour group in
the European Parliament, said the annual sum for promoting the EU in Britain
should exceed pounds 1m if the Government is serious about winning a referendum
on an EU constitution. "pounds 200,000 is not very much," he said. "It is one of
our problems. Some of the stuff the Foreign Office is doing is very good but
there is not enough of it. We should be selling Europe to people."

The pounds 200,000 annual budget is spent on road-shows, printing leaflets,
including those on cross-Channel ferries, but calls for the promotion budget to
be increased have been ignored.

"They squeeze an enormous amount out of pounds 200,000 but the sum is
ridiculously small," one senior minister said. Gordon Brown will be pressed in
this year's spending review to write out a big cheque to make the case for
Europe, and for EU-funded projects in Britain to be publicly acknowledged.

Government sources say without extra cash it will be exceedingly difficult to
outgun the well-funded Eurosceptic lobby, which has wealthy business backers
such as Paul Sykes, who helped fund UKIP's election success. The ministers
warned that unless the Foreign Office begins to promote Brussels in Britain
actively now it will be too late to convince the British people to vote "yes"
when a campaign on the constitution formally kicks off after the general
election.

But the Government is understood to be reluctant to accept cash from the EU to
promote Europe because it fears a public backlash. The "no" campaign received an
estimated pounds 1m before the Euro elections and is expected to bring in pounds
4m.

Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, is likely to warn Mr Blair, who faces
Commons questions today, against using taxpayers' money to support a new treaty
on the constitution, which the Tories oppose. Mr Blair made it clear yesterday
that he was optimistic of a deal, and was confident Britain would protect its
so-called "red lines" to preserve the veto on taxation, defence, justice,
foreign affairs and social security.

"I am reasonably optimistic we will have an agreement," he said. "The reason for
it is that with 25 countries, not 15, a lot needs to change. It is important to
have changes but there are real gains for us."

Mr Blair said one sticking point for Britain was a need to embody in the treaty
text a guarantee that the proposed charter of fundamental rights would not give
the European Court of Justice the right to interfere in Britain's employment
laws. He said: "We are not prepared to have anything that takes away our ability
to make sure our industrial laws remain flexible as they are now.

"We have high levels of employment, low levels of unemployment, and we have to
be sure our legal basis is very clear. There has to be no question of the
European Court of Justice whether in the front door or the back door, being able
to change these laws."

On tax, the Irish presidency of the EU suggested scrapping any plans to
introduce qualified majority voting, though this has yet to be agreed by EU
partners, including France. But proposals that the national veto on foreign
policy should be axed have disappeared.

Under the latest compromise, the veto would be scrapped on very limited areas of
social security, concerning migrant workers, but with a new "emergency break", a
mechanism that ensures no country can be outvoted on a measure it dislikes.

Under this system, if a country thinks a measure infringes the principles of its
social security system it can refer it to the European Council, where it has a
veto.

A similar system would also apply to measures to create cross-border laws on
justice and home affairs.

A threat to the British budget rebate appears to have been seen off. Under the
latest compromise decision on the system of raising cash for the EU, Britain
would keep the veto. Majority voting would apply only on how to implement
rebates.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              219 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 734 words


Ukip cooks up a rusty plan to prove that it is not racist

Shaken, perhaps, by accusations that it is part of a right-wing conspiracy, the
UK Independence Party is making a concerted effort to convince the electorate of
its anti-racist credentials.

The Eurosceptic party has quietly recruited its first black celebrity supporter
- the TV chef Rusty Lee - and plans to unveil her later this week. If all goes
to plan, she will stand for them in the West Midlands at the next general
election.

Lee was born in Jamaica, and lives in Kidderminster with her German husband.
Like many of UKIP's high-profile fans, she is of a certain age, and achieved
fame in the 1980s opposite Anne Diamond on TV-AM.

"I don't think we should be in Europe any more," she says. "We've got our toe in
the water, and we shouldn't throw our full body in there. This party is not
about race hatred. There's people in this country of great diversity, who just
don't think we should be part of something that will do us harm."

A spokesman for UKIP said yesterday that the recruitment of the bubbly "face" of
multicultural 1980s broadcasting would nail the lie that the party is the "BNP
in blazers."

"How can we be the public face of Nazism when people like Rusty Lee, Tony Benn,
Frank Field and Bob Crow share our beliefs?" he said.

Hack shows he's not stuck for a date

ANOTHER DAY, another milestone in the propaganda war between Kate Moss and her
estranged boyfriend Jefferson Hack. The couple (pictured in happier times) have
been involved in various point-scoring since Moss began stepping out with the
actor Daniel Craig a couple of months ago.

On Monday, Hack made his own attempt to show that he's moved on, turning up at
the launch of Superset Tennis on the arm of Annabelle Neilson, the former wife
of the banking heir Nat Rothschild.

"Jefferson's a big tennis fan and a regular at Wimbledon, and he's also a great
friend of our CEO Damian Mould," says an organiser. "Annabelle was invited as a
member of Jefferson's circle of friends."

Incidentally, Neilson - who was once a close friend of Kate Moss - was happy to
pose for photographers outside the event. Hack hurried inside once flashbulbs
began popping.

Something he ate?

CONFUSION SURROUNDS the cancellation of Iain Duncan Smith's one- man show at
Millfield Theatre, Edmonton last night.

The former Tory leader (left) was hoping to banish the demons of his first An
Audience with..., when just 70 people turned up to see him at the 1,600-seat
Liverpool Philharmonic Hall.

Sadly, at 3pm yesterday, the Millfield Theatre said their show had been
cancelled, with just 100 of the 360 tickets sold. Initial calls to IDS's
producer, Clive Conway Productions, elicited a swift denial - "I can assure you
its not been cancelled; there's a mix-up here" - but an hour later came the
following news:

"Iain is sick. He had something for lunch that didn't agree with him."

And the winner is...

A DELIGHTFULLY petty row has broken out between the political soothsayer Stephan
Shakespeare - former assistant to Lord Archer, no less - and his rival pollster
Nick Sparrow.

Yesterday, Shakespeare e-mailed most of Fleet Street in order to herald "another
triumphant day" for his polling company YouGov following the recent elections.

"YouGov was again the most accurate pollster, cementing its reputation for
delivering higher quality data... according to The Observer, "YouGov's rise has
sparked resentment from traditional pollsters."

Not five minutes later Sparrow, the director of ICM, proved that very point,
firing an angry missive to every recipient of Shakespeare's e- mail, attacking
its various claims.

With customary respect for their privacy, Paul Burrell has provided the public
with a rare insight into the Royal Family's toilet habits. Asked in a Q&A
interview if loo roll ought to be wound under or over a dispenser, Burrell said
recently: "Of course it should be over. If it were down, it would unravel all
over the floor.

"Royals don't have that problem of course. Instead, they have sheets of tissue
which are fanned out into an attractive display and sit in a box."

By the by, a New York newspaper reported yesterday that the rap artist P Diddy
wants to recruit Burrell as his manservant. It did not say how Mr Diddy prefers
to arrange his loo roll.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              220 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: UKIP WRECKERS AND THE EUROPEAN FUTURE

BYLINE: ROGER HUDSON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 128 words


Sir: Now the truth is out. Watching the posturing Robert Kilroy- Silk at the
head of his 12 embittered UKIP MEPs, I was struck by his statement of intent to
"wreck" the European Union. Not just to withdraw the UK from the EU but to
destroy it in spite of all those who wish to be part of the economic, social and
political benefits that the EU offers.

Reform and further development of EU institutions is necessary, but UKIP's
extreme minority with just 15 per cent support seeks to plunge Europe back into
generations of conflict. Go and play your games elsewhere, Mr Kilroy-Silk, and
let our children and grandchildren enjoy the peace and prosperity that a stable
and united Europe has provided for 60 years.

ROGER HUDSON

Eastbourne, East Sussex

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              221 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: UKIP WRECKERS AND THE EUROPEAN FUTURE

BYLINE: DAVID DRUM

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 116 words


Sir: Your front page headline (14 June) misdescribes the vehicle known as UKIP.
It is not a bandwagon but a Trojan horse. Voters with nationalistic views more
in tune with those espoused by the BNP now have a seemingly respectable
political vehicle.

Prior to UKIP's respray with the glossy Kilroy-Silk coating, those voters had to
buy into the Tory brand in the hope that the right wing was heavy enough to
influence its direction. The alternative was to be seen sporting a socially
unacceptable downmarket brand driven by skinheads and racist hooligans.

Labour and Tories will underestimate the power of the newly launched brand at
their and our peril.

DAVID DRUM

London W4

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              222 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: UKIP WRECKERS AND THE EUROPEAN FUTURE

BYLINE: MARK CARDEN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 93 words


Sir: Your front-page attempt to discredit the UK Independence Party (15 June) is
missing the point. UKIP voters are indifferent to any lack of diversity,
credibility, sobriety, consistency and virtue among the UKIP MEPs, as they don't
really care what they get up to in office.

The point of voting for UKIP is to send a message to the mainstream parties that
many British people are deeply unhappy with the EU. When the real parties start
to respond to this signal, UKIP will have served its purpose.

MARK CARDEN

Horsley, Gloucestershire

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              223 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: UKIP WRECKERS AND THE EUROPEAN FUTURE

BYLINE: P COLLIER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 154 words


Sir: I can't help feeling that the UKIP bubble will not outlive the year. It is
charitable of the British electorate to give Kilroy-Silk something to do (in the
pay of his beloved EU) for the next four years but single-issue politics has
never taken hold. The party seems to be composed almost entirely of white
middle-aged men who seem determined to try and return Britain to an imagined
1950s golden age.

The British people will see through this troupe of angry old men because the UK
is unlikely to achieve anywhere near favourable terms for a post- withdrawal
trade agreement.

I fear that withdrawal from the EU could lead to the break-up of the UK:
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland would resent the loss of an income stream
which is independent of central government and one response could be dissolution
of the union followed by separate readmission to the EU.

P COLLIER

Reading, Berkshire

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              224 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: UKIP WRECKERS AND THE EUROPEAN FUTURE

BYLINE: KEN EVANS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 102 words


Sir: No matter how many MEPs UKIP may get, they are impotent to get the UK out
of the European Union. Only our Westminster Parliament can do that, and the
UKIP's chances of forming a government are about as likely as those of the BNP.

I'm all for nationalism. I'm a member of Mebyon Kernow (the Party for Cornwall).
But the best way forward for all five nations comprising the UK is to remain
part of the European Union. Let us have nationalism, but let it be the kind
which recognises the benefits of an alliance of European nations to
counterbalance the mighty USA.

KEN EVANS

Truro, Cornwall

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              225 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: UKIP WRECKERS AND THE EUROPEAN FUTURE

BYLINE: JIM TRIMMER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 72 words


Sir: Do the Little Britons of UKIP not realise that a stronger cultural
identification with Europe is all that stands between this country and complete
coca-colonisation? Surely we have seen enough of US culture recently, from the
clumsy brutality of Iraq to the woeful consequences of adopting the American
approach to diet and exercise, to give anybody a serious attack of the willies.

JIM TRIMMER

Isleworth, Middlesex

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              226 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: UKIP WRECKERS AND THE EUROPEAN FUTURE

BYLINE: PATRICK POWELL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 238 words


Sir: Given UKIP's success in the elections and the tendency of europhiles to
regard those who do not share their enthusiasm as, at best, benighted idiots
and, at worst, borderline racists, might I, as neither a UKIP supporter nor a
europhile, outline why I feel Britain should approach the question of greater EU
integration with extreme caution?

I am familiar with all the supposed benefits a fully integrated EU will bring,
but I feel that almost all the advocacy is tinged with a certain unworldly and
adolescent idealism. It is naive to imagine that a stirring anthem and oodles of
goodwill can weld together 25 disparate cultures so that we will all play by the
same rules and bury our national interests for the greater EU good.

I am extremely concerned that, for example, the EU shows no political will to
deal with glaring inconsistencies such as the Common Agricultural Policy (which
heavily favours the French for purely domestic reasons) or the outright flouting
by France and Germany (again for purely domestic reasons) of the stability pact.

Too much intellectual dishonesty pervades the justification for greater EU
integration. For example, when europhiles say that the United States of America
exists harmoniously enough so why not a European Union, they choose to forget
that for the US to become what it is today involved a very bloody civil war.

PATRICK POWELL

St Breward, Cornwall

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              227 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: UKIP WRECKERS AND THE EUROPEAN FUTURE

BYLINE: JOHN DAVISON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 209 words


Sir: I voted for UKIP and I am neither right-wing nor anti-Europe. I am against
the centralisation of decision-making because it undermines accountability,
disempowers the electorate and often makes for bad law.

One small example. A friend of a friend runs a small, animal-welfare- oriented
sheep farm. Until recently, the sheep were humanely slaughtered on the farm,
with minimal stress. Now the EU has brought in legislation closing down small
abattoirs, so the sheep have to be transported miles to a central unit.

And if you don't think sheep are that important, spare a thought for the Swedes,
who are now forced to lug their culled elk across great distances to refrigerate
them immediately to comply with EU law, because it hadn't occurred to Brussels
that outdoors in a Swedish winter is colder than the inside of a fridge.

Or you might consider the thousands of health food stores that are threatened
with closure because the EU is passing legislation which demands futile testing
(presumably on more long-suffering animals) of hundreds of alternative products
which are known to be safe.

One doesn't have to be a xenophobe to deplore having to pay people to make this
kind of mess of things.

JOHN DAVISON

London SW9

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              228 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

FOOTBALL HOOLIGANS, POLITICS AND THE NEED TO BELONG;
 IF PEOPLE NEED A SENSE OF SHARED IDENTITY, FROM WHERE ARE THEY GOING

BYLINE: RAJ PERSAUD

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 863 words


The first serious violence of Euro 2004 inevitably involved England fans when
they clashed with Portuguese police yesterday. But psychologists weren't
surprised - their research suggests an intriguing explanation for the propensity
of English fans to let the side down, an elucidation linked as well to the
startling rise of the UK Independence Party.

Officially, more than 2,500 English football fans had been banned from going to
Euro 2004, a policy founded on the notion that hooliganism is the preserve of a
small minority of "trouble makers". Target this marginal faction, so the
official argument goes, and you will eliminate problem.

Actually psychologists who specialise in crowd behaviour and who have made a
special study of football fans' behaviour, have arrived at an almost
diametrically opposite conclusion. They believe that many caught up in riots
have no previous history of violence, and instead are galvanised into action by
a sense of solidarity which emerges suddenly and powerfully, as a direct result
of the way the authorities confront crowds.

This difference of opinion between behavioural scientists and the Government has
dramatic implications not just for English football, but also the prospect for
UK politics. The two foremost authorities in the area of the behaviour of
violent crowds and European football hooligans are Otto Adang, a behavioural
scientist at the Netherlands Police Academy, and Clifford Stott, a psychologist
at the University of Liverpool, and their research has converged on a remarkably
similar explanation for football violence.

These psychologists point out that there are many football games where known
hooligans are present, but yet no aggression erupts, therefore the reasons a
crowd turns violent must hinge on another process.

Dr Stott's ideas began to formulate after his study of the London poll tax riots
in 1990, where it became clear that violence from a group of people who usually
had not met much, or even at all before, emerges from the rapid but powerful
development of a shared group identity. This identity is based on a strong sense
of "them" and "us" which is often galvanised by certain police control
techniques. Dr Stott argues that coercive policing - often termed high-profile'
- actually works to create a sense of solidarity amongst a crowd of people,
whose fear and anger in response, cements them into a cohesive collective which
then produces the confidence to retaliate. Dr Adang and Dr Stott have conducted
several studies of fans of English teams playing in continental Europe over the
past decade and have observed how many who saw themselves as having no intention
of engaging in hooliganism came to see conflict with the police as acceptable
because of developing a sense of "them" and "us" over "heavy-handed" policing.

This notion of an enemy mobilising a strong sense of identity by catalysing a
sense of "them" and "us" - in other words we almost need a "them" in order to
produce a sense of "us" - has recently received another fillip from
just-published psychiatric research which finds the number of suicides in
September 2001 were significantly lower than other months in the same year, and
any September of the previous 22 years, in England and Wales.

The author of the study, University of Liverpool psychiatrist Dr Emad Salib,
argues the terrorist attacks on the twin towers in that month seemed to lower
suicide rates nationally perhaps because it brought communities closer together
as a response to a new perceived peril.

Psychologists would therefore argue that the major political parties have rather
missed the essential point of the recent startling success of UKIP - they have
mobilised massive support from a standing start because at a deep psychological
level their identification of an enemy (Europe) and a consequent threat to UK
identity, has filled a need for social cohesion the other parties are not
addressing. Previously our sense of identity may have come from our religion,
our geographical location or our class - all of these sources are now rendered
problematic because of increasing secularisation, geographical and class
mobility.

If people need a sense of shared identity, from where are they going to secure
it today? Sport may have come to be so pervasive because it fills certain innate
psychological tribal needs within us all - witness the current remarkable
contagion of England flags. UKIP, unlike the other parties, is offering a shared
sense of identity which turns on the powerful idea of a potential loss of
character from disappearing into a European morass. The failure of the policing
of Euro 2004 could be the same collapse as that of the politicians over the
European project, a fundamental breakdown in understanding the essential
psychological need to put in place a healthy sense of self and belonging.

Otherwise our need to belong is so strong and deep, we are vulnerable to the
intervention of darker forces, who will slither in and exploit the opportunity,
wherever a vacuum begins to develop in our sense of identity.

The writer is consultant psychiatrist at the Maudsley hospital

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              229 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

UKIP 'EX-TORIES'

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 21 words


FORTY-five per cent of UKIP voters in the Euro elections were ex-Tories, putting
Labour ahead in a new ICM/Guardian poll.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              230 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

TORY POLL PAIN

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 22 words


THE rise of Ukip threatens to scupper the Tories' chances at the next general
election, according to a new ICM/Guardian poll.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              231 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

VOICE OF THE DAILY MIRROR: NICE AND NASTY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LEADER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 59 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk presents himself as charming and smooth.

Yet, as the Mirror's profile shows, there is another side to him.

His charisma has been a terrific boost to the UK Independence Party. But his
public affability is very diff- erent from the nastiness of its policies.

This is a dangerous road, as history shows. Voters beware.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              232 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

THE BULLY BENEATH THE TAN;
 INSIDE THE REAL WORLD OF ROBERT KILROY SILK

BYLINE: ROS WYNNE-JONES ADDITIONAL REPORTING: MATT ROPER

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1386 words

HIGHLIGHT: CHEAT: With Janet, his wife of 42 years and business partner;
CHARMER: Kilroy-Silk in action on his Kilroy chat showIDYLLIC: Villa on Costa
del Sol for Europhobe Kilroy-Silk


AS Robert Kilroy-Silk faced the cameras yesterday, he did so with the air of a
white-haired knight in shining armour.

At the UK Independence Party's celebratory press conference, he leaned his head
earnestly to one side with the practised air of a man who spent 17 years
pretending to listen to the public on his daily chat show.

His blue eyes sparkled and his perma-tanned skin spoke of youthful,
fresh-from-the-gym vitality.

He shook his head regretfully as if only his reluctant return to politics after
an absence of nearly two decades could save Britain now.

On the surface, Kilroy-Silk - whose face was surely made by God for baby-kissing
- appears the consummate politician, a self-appointed moral guardian dripping
with charm. Yet the carefully cultivated image belies the hypocrisy of a man
whose tendency to berate single mothers for their own lapses in morality is not
reflected in his own behaviour.

This is a millionaire who, despite having been married for 42 years to wife
Janet, fathered a love child he has never met.

He is a bully who has been violent and is said to have cut off the water supply
to his neighbours' home.

He is an ambitious political chameleon who has attacked races from Arab to Irish
and insulted Muslims. He is an egotist so astonishingly vain he once thought
himself, "too handsome for politics".

He said: "I have lived with it all my life - the effect I have on men and women.
I would be the last to deny my looks have opened doors for me."

Just as in his TV show, he no doubt dropped his voice to its most grimly
seductive to add: "People tend not to recoil if I touch them. And I like to
touch."

Born into a working-class Birmingham family as plain Robert Silk in 1942, he
reinvented himself as Kilroy-Silk, using his father and stepfather's surnames.

He dropped the Silk for his man-of-the-people TV show Kilroy but on his
political comeback, the Silk has returned with the silky charm.

He owns a pounds 2.5million mansion in Amersham, Bucks, with pool, tennis courts
and 16 acre deer park which once belonged to Ozzy Osbourne.

Every three weeks, despite his apparent loathing for things European, he travels
to Finca Rozalejo, his 100-acre mansion in Casares, near Marbella, where the
Spanish sun tops up his tan to matinee idol brightness. Meanwhile, his politics
have similarly been reinvented.

Schoolfriends remember him as a socialist who wrote passionate anti-materialist
poems.

He joined the Labour Party at 16 and was a lecturer in political theory at
Liverpool University before becoming a Labour MP from 1974 to 1986. Now, as a
European MP for Ukip, he prefers a xenophobic, rabidly anti-Europe stance
perfectly nuanced towards the concerns of right-wing Britain.

By picking off the soft targets of the right - asylum seekers, Europe, Muslims -
he ensures the people who once watched his TV programme now see him as a kind of
political saviour.

Anti-racist campaigners fear that he may become the acceptable face of racist
Britain.

Back in the 1970s, Kilroy's time as MP for Knowsley North in Liverpool was
marred by controversy.

Almost as soon as he was elected he downsized to a small weekend flat and moved
out of the area, says constituency chairman John King.

"He would never reveal his working-class roots," Mr King remembers. "He always
gave the impression he was born with a silver spoon in his mouth." There were
frequent skirmishes with the Militant Tendency.

In 1985, he punched David Rees, a guest at a Bournemouth boarding house, for
talking over the news in the TV room, then threw him through a glass door.

The same year he had to be restrained during a scuffle with fellow politician
Jeremy Corbyn at the House of Commons.

Despite his behaviour, Labour spent considerable resources defending Kilroy's
seat from Militant.

But, having won the battle, he resigned to start his TV career.

The money to be made from TV was "irresistible", he said.

In his most recently registered accounts, his Kilroy Television Company brought
him and his co- director wife a joint annual salary of pounds 1.5million, along
with the pounds 50,000 a year he made from ferrying guests in his own private
car company and billing the BBC . As well as Janet, his daughter Natasha, 32,
was employed as a director of the car company and a producer of the TV show.

The 19-year-old son he has never met and kept hidden for years, has had a very
different start in life.

The result of an illicit affair while Kilroy was still an MP, Danny lives with
his art teacher mother Hilary Beauchamp in a housing association flat in North
London.

Happy to preach glibly about parenting to his TV audience on shows including My
Father Let Me Down, Kilroy initially agreed to pay pounds 200 a month on the
condition that Hilary told no one he was Danny's father.

But in 2000 the payments stopped and Hilary had to bring in the Child Support
Agency.

Meanwhile, former staff at his TV show describe his management style as a
"bullying, offensive and rude".

One remembers daily producers' meetings as shouting matches.

"People would be reduced to tears," she recalls. "Women found him particularly
difficult.

"There were black staff that he did promote but they had a lot to put up with.
He would always turn to them on subjects involving any form of race issue,
calling them 'your lot'."

Female production staff had grapes thrown at them as a gesture of derision.
"Ugly guests" would be sent to the back of the studio. Toilet breaks for staff
were timed.

Kilroy could also be ruthless. On the night after the Dunblane massacre, a
researcher was ordered to call parents at 2am to get them on to the next day's
show, only hours after their children had been killed.

Kilroy also invited "paedophile" Stephen Wells on to the show and agreed to
protect his anonymity despite his claim he had abused 17 boys.

A fellow audience member tipped off the police and Wells was arrested leaving
the studio - only for police to discover he was a fantasist who had made his
lurid stories of abuse.

Former Penthouse Pet of the Year Elisha Scott, 30, claims Kilroy-Silk suggested
they "book a hotel" after she appeared on one of his shows. She suggested they
meet in the bar for a drink instead.

She said: "He told me it would make it difficult to then book a room. He said
these things had to be organised like a military operation."

In 2002, Sheila Davies, who looked after the Kilroy-Silks' pounds 2million
Spanish estate, fell through a rotten balustrade breaking five ribs and a collar
bone.

She asked her employers for modest compensation but instead Kilroy tried to
force her into signing a declaration that she was never formally employed by
them. When she refused, he sacked her.

Sheila says: "Kilroy-Silk is not a gentleman. He was always telling me how
stupid I was. Ever since the accident I live day by day. Sometimes I wake up and
I cry and cry."

In January it was claimed the Kilroys cut off water to neighbours in
Buckinghamshire after an underground pipe flooded a flowerbed. George Hance, 91
- who has cancer - and his wife Maude, 84, were distraught.

MAUDE said: "We explained we needed water because my husband was sick. But she
replied: 'Your water has been running across my land for years and I'm not
having it'."

It cost them pounds 2,000 for a new main. The Kilroys deny the claim.

Earlier this year, it seemed his luck had run out when his comments labelling
Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb amputators and women repressors" ended his TV
career.

In truth, this was nothing new. In 1992, he was forced to apologise for
describing Ireland as "a country peopled by peasants, priests and pixies". He
has claimed that Pakistanis "want to generate hate", that Germans are
"truculent", the French are "devious" and the Spanish are "not to be trusted".

In 1991, in an article, West is Best, Kilroy said of Muslims: "They are backward
and evil and if it is racist to say so... then racist I must be - and proud and
happy to be so."

Now, at last, he has found in Ukip - a party which has frequently denied links
to the BNP and other far right organisations - an arena where a man of his views
and character can finally be applauded.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              233 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

SUE CARROLL: SILKWORM

BYLINE: SUE CARROLL

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 60 words


A COLLEAGUE of mine when introduced to Robert Kilroy-Silk, left, was alarmed to
catch the UK Independence Party campaigner gazing over his shoulder - not to see
what worthy person might be entering the room, but to catch his own reflection
in the window.

This merely confirms Kilroy's statement that his is a single-issue party. The
issue being him.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              234 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

DEAR MIRROR: YOU TEXT

BYLINE: P FUDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 24 words


IF UKIP are against being in Europe, does this mean the 12 MEPs will take no
monetary reward from the European Parliament?

P Fudge, Spain

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              235 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 16, 2004

MEUTINY

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, Political Editor

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 478 words


PM faces united rebellion on Constitution

TONY Blair last night faced a nationwide mutiny if he signs up to an EU
superstate.

An astonishing coalition of MPs and business and trade union leaders will spend
millions fighting the new EU Constitution.

They will demand sweeping repatriation of control over trade, immigration and
crime.

A rattled Mr Blair knows voters are in uproar after Labour's spectacular kicking
in the European elections.

But he will be shocked by the sweep of anti-EU feeling against him if he puts
his name to the Constitution on Friday.

Rebel Labour MPs will echo UK Independence Party calls for Britain to pull out
of the EU altogether.

Trade unions have set up a Left-wing think-tank, the Centre For A Social Europe,
to argue for powers to be taken from Brussels.

Bankers and business leaders such as former Dixons tycoon Sir Stanley Kalms and
Michael Spencer, the City's richest man, have set up a multi-million-pound "Vote
No" war chest.

Thousands of letters are being sent to opinion-formers across the country.

Cinema adverts will pound home the message that powers must be in the hands of
British MPs, not Brussels.

The eurosceptic New Frontiers think-tank is setting up a high-profile expert
panel to examine how Britain can recapture key economic powers, including
agriculture, fisheries, trade policy, business regulation, workers' rights and
health and safety laws.

The campaign will back Mr Blair's sudden revolt against the Charter of
Fundamental Rights and sweeping powers of the European Court of Justice.

The alliance of left, right and centre destroys Tony Blair's hope that his
referendum promise had laid the issue to rest. Downing Street insiders admit he
is now under pressure to veto negotiations at the crucial Constitution summit
tomorrow.

And senior EU diplomats admit hopes of a deal have been slashed by the Europe
wide revolt against Brussels.

Centre For A Social Europe director Matthew McGregor said: "We oppose the
extension of commercial policy to include health and education.This should not
be a job for the European Court of Justice. We fear the NHS could face death by
a thousand cuts."

The PM last night lambasted UKIP for trying to pull Britain out of the EU -but
admitted voters were angry.

He said: "No politician can afford to be deaf to the voice of the electorate.

There are big arguments to be won about the direction of this country. But I am
prepared to win.

"It is in Britain's interests to be at the heart of Europe whatever the problems
and difficulties. It would be extraordinary foolishness for us to withdraw from
the biggest political alliance in the world and the biggest economic market
right on our doorstep."

New Frontiers director Dominic Cummings said: "The EU is going down the tubes -
Britain must not go with it."


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              236 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 16, 2004

M-EU-TINY

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, Political Editor

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 426 words


PM faces united rebellion on Constitution

TONY Blair last night faced a nationwide mutiny if he signs up to an EU
superstate.

An astonishing coalition of MPs and business and trade union leaders will spend
millions fighting the new EU Constitution.

They will demand sweeping repatriation of control over trade, immigration and
crime.

A rattled Mr Blair knows voters are in uproar after Labour's spectacular kicking
in the European elections.

But he will be shocked by the sweep of anti-EU feeling against him if he puts
his name to the Constitution on Friday.

Rebel Labour MPs will echo UK Independence Party calls for Britain to pull out
of the EU altogether. Unions have formed a Left-wing think-tank, the Centre For
A Social Europe, to argue for powers to be taken from Brussels.

Bankers and business leaders such as former Dixons tycoon Sir Stanley Kalms have
set up a multi-million-pound "Vote No" war chest.

Thousands of letters are being sent to opinion-formers.

Cinema adverts will pound home the message that powers must be in the hands of
British MPs, not Brussels.

The eurosceptic New Frontiers think-tank is setting up a high-profile expert
panel to examine how Britain can recapture key economic powers, including
agriculture, fisheries, trade policy, business regulation, workers' rights and
health and safety laws.

The campaign will back Mr Blair's sudden revolt against the Charter of
Fundamental Rights and sweeping powers of the European Court of Justice.

The alliance of left, right and centre destroys Mr Blair's hope that his
referendum promise had laid the issue to rest. Downing Street insiders admit he
is now under pressure to veto negotiations at the crucial Constitution summit
tomorrow.

And senior EU diplomats admit hopes of a deal have been slashed by the Europe
wide revolt against Brussels.

Centre For A Social Europe director Matthew McGregor said: "We oppose the
extension of commercial policy to include health and education.This should not
be a job for the European Court of Justice. We fear the NHS could face death by
a thousand cuts."

The PM yesterday lambasted UKIP for trying to pull Britain out of the EU -but
admitted voters were angry.

He said: "No politician can afford to be deaf to the voice of the electorate.

There are big arguments to be won about the direction of this country. But I am
prepared to win. It's in Britain's interests to be at the heart of Europe
whatever the problems and difficulties."

GIVE US OUR NATION BACK: Pages 8 and 9


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              237 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 16, 2004

WAKE UP TO REAL REASON FOR POLLS DRUBBING, TONY

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 331 words


LABOUR has suffered one of the worst results at the polls in decades - with many
voters making it clear that don't agree with the policy on Europe and fears over
a Euro superstate. Labour chiefs blame it on the Iraq war. Some readers agreed -
others felt Tony Blair should recognise the Euro problem.

TONY Blair has taken a real hammering in the EU elections - the results prove
the country has lost its trust in him.

He should recognise this fact and quit now. He has said he would resign if he
became a liability. The results at the polls suggest that time has come.

SAM BROWN

Edinburgh

BLAIR and his cronies cannot blame the Euro election shocker solely on Iraq. I
am sure that was an element but the biggest reason is that we have no trust of
Europe, do not want the EU constitution and don't trust Blair.

STEVE HENDERSON

Dundee

AFTER reading your report on the Euro elections it seems as if the only people
interested in the constitution are the politicians who can't wait to get their
snouts into the trough.

C NEIL

Motherwell

IT comes as no surprise that Labour took a trouncing in the recent local
elections.

The British public is fed up of illegal immigrants and Blair trying to sell us
all out to Europe. It was only a matter of time before this election nightmare
happened.

C OLIVER

Dalmuir, West Dunbartonshire

A CLEAR signal has been sent to our so-called leaders. The rise of the UK
Independence Party shows the public is not buying Labour's vision of a Europe
with power over British customs.

Now Blair will have to listen, after seven years of ignoring the views of the
electorate.

Otherwise he will not get his third term in office.

ANDREW DICKSON

Coldstream, Berwickshire

THE voters of Britain have served a warning about Europe to the PM. We want to
be part of Europe, but don't want a single currency or the new EU constitution.
Blair would do well to listen to the people.

S TYRIE

Ayr


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              238 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 15, 2004

Brussels beware, Kilroy is here

BYLINE: PAUL EASTHAM

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 822 words



ROBERT Kilroy- Silk vowed yesterday to expose 'waste and corruption' in Brussels
after the election triumph of the UK Independence Party.

The newly-elected MEP was asked what he would do when he got to the European
Parliament.

He declared: 'Wreck it expose it for the waste, the corruption and the way it's
eroding our independence and our sovereignty.' The surge in support for the UKIP
showed there was a huge chunk of the electorate which wanted out of the entire
EU project.

This left Tony Blair facing a massive struggle last night to force through the
new European constitution.

Labour's worst election defeat since 1910 created the worst possible backdrop as
the Premier prepared to fly to a summit in Brussels on Thursday to put the
finishing touches to the blueprint for the EU's future.

The UKIP more than doubled its 1999 vote to take 16 per cent in last Thursday's
poll, pushing the Lib Dems into fourth place.

Mr Kilroy-Silk spoke out as leaders of the anti-Brussels party toasted their
success with English sparkling wine in Westminster.

He said the job of the 12 UKIP MEPs was to go to Europe and say: 'Look, this is
what they do, this is how they waste your money, this is how they spend it, this
is how it gets corrupted, this is how they all go on this kind of gravy train
and spend their time in restaurants.' Mr Kilroy-Silk later explained that by
saying he wanted to 'wreck' the parliament, he meant he wanted to 'draw
attention to its deficiencies'.

Michael Howard can also take no comfort from the UKIP vote. Last night a poll
showed nearly half of those who backed the UKIP had abandoned the Tories.

According to an ICM poll for today's Guardian, 45 per cent of those who voted
for UKIP backed the Conservatives at the 1999 General Election.

Although the Tories came top of last week's vote, winning 27 seats in the
European Parliament, the party's share of support slumped 9 per cent from the
last Euro elections five years ago.

It was their lowest share of any nationwide election since 1832.

The ICM poll also showed 20 per cent of UKIP's voters were former Labour
supporters.

'Tony Blair has had seven years to persuade people about his policy of being at
the heart of Europe and he has clearly failed,' Mr Kilroy Silk added.

'Twenty-six per cent of voters in my constituency have said, "Fine, Tony, if you
want to be at the heart of Europe, you go there. But we ain't going to be there
with you''.' The party displayed a poster with a message to Mr Blair ahead of
the EU summit. It read: 'Don't sign the constitution, Tony. Britain says No.'
After Labour's disastrous showing some of its MPs now doubt whether Mr Blair
dare take the risk of signing Britain up to the document for fear of a backlash
at next year's General Election.

Blairites insisted he was 'happy' with the result as it will allow him to demand
more concessions from his EU partners and combat any federalist tendencies.

Privately, however, Downing Street insiders admit that, with the UKIP cutting a
swathe through the mainstream parties' support, the chances of winning the
promised referendum on the constitution have all but vanished.

Mr Blair last night met Labour MPs and urged them to hold their nerve despite
the party's vote falling 6 per cent to 23 per cent, their worst share of the
vote since before World War I.

Euro- friendly Labour MPs argued last night that UKIP's advance shows Mr Blair
blundered by offering a referendum in the first place. They say he is doomed to
lose it whenever it comes.

There were growing signs that Ministers believe there are only two ways of
escaping the dilemma.

One is to force through so many amendments to the Euro text that it is rendered
toothless. The other, most likely, option is to hope that other national leaders
raise so many objections the whole enterprise is permanently derailed.

If that happens, a relieved Mr Blair would not have to hold a referendum at all.

Downing Street was last night distinctly cool about the constitution's prospects
of being approved this week. A spokesman said Number-10 believed it was 'still
possible-to do a deal in Brussels but, he warned, 'there are issues over which
we have no control'.

THE validity of the London mayoral and assembly elections was in doubt last
night as it emerged that more than half a million votes were rejected in the
second round of the contest that saw Ken Livingstone narrowly beat Tory
candidate Steve Norris.

It is believed hundreds of thousands of electors were confused by having to vote
for a 'second preference'.

Experts said the ballot papers did not explain clearly enough why voters had to
do this and therefore the result was 'not satisfactory'.

The Tories described the confusion as 'concerning' although Mr Norris said he
would not mount a legal challenge to the result.

The hour of reckoning

END

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              239 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 15, 2004

Meanwhile, Howard shuffles his pack

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 489 words


MICHAEL Howard staged a surprise Shadow Cabinet reshuffle yesterday as he sought
to draw a line under the Tories' disappointing result in the European elections.

Despite topping the poll, the Conservatives were hit by mass defections to the
UK Independence Party.

Party strategists are convinced most of the defectors will return to the fold at
the General Election.

But the Tory leader moved swiftly to dispel the deep gloom into which the
results cast the party with the reshuffle.

Tim Yeo was moved from his post as spokesman for public services, handling both
health and education. He was given Theresa May's job shadowing transport and the
environment.

There has been widespread criticism that Mr Yeo had too much on his plate, given
the political importance of health and education.

His job is being split into two 'in view of the crucial importance of these
policy areas in the run-up to the next general election', said Tory HQ in a
statement.

Mr Yeo's deputies, health spokesman Andrew Lansley and education spokesman Tim
Collins, will both step up into the Shadow Cabinet.

Mrs May has been given a newly voted created post spokesman for the family. She
will focus on family issues across all policy areas.

The appointment raised eyebrows at Westminster because Mrs May has no children.
The new job was seen as a safe place to 'park' the shadow minister who has
proved one of the least effective of the Tory team.

She was dumped as party chairman by Mr Howard when he took over as leader last
autumn. Colleagues say she has made little impact with the transport and
environment portfolio.

David Willetts remains as work and pensions spokesman but loses his other role
as head of policy coordination. That goes to rising star David Cameron who will
report directly to Mr Howard, though he will not have a seat in the Shadow
Cabinet.

The rest of the front bench team is unchanged. The shake-up took the Shadow
Cabinet by surprise.

Mr Howard will today return to the domestic political agenda with a speech
setting out the party's basic thinking on health and education in advance of the
'rollout' of detailed new policies between now and the summer parliamentary
recess.

He has also signalled he has no intention of shifting his policy on Europe in
response to the inroads made by UKIP, despite pressure to do so from Eurosceptic
Tory MPs.

Mr Howard's deputy, Michael Ancram, said many of those who for UKIP did not want
to see Britain leave the EU, but were simply expressing concern about
developments in Brussels, including the proposed European Constitution.

Mr Ancram told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'We have made it clear that we
don't want to leave Europe.

'I hope that if there is one message Tony Blair takes out of this, it is that he
has no mandate to go this week to Brussels and sign up to this wretched
constitution.' Comment Page 12

END

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MOVED: TIM YEO MOVING UP: TIM COLLINS . . . AND ANDREW LANSLEY NEW
ROLE: THERESA MAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              240 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 15, 2004

COMMENT

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 612 words


SHELLSHOCK in Brussels, dismay in Downing Street, anguish in the liberal Press
the establishment's response to the European elections is almost comic in its
bewilderment at the vagaries of the democratic process.

But to millions of ordinary citizens, this is a day to savour and celebrate,
exposing as it does the yawning chasm between our ruling elites and the voters
they consistently treat with contempt.

For years, those voters have been patronised, ignored and derided as xenophobes
if they dared to voice a eurosceptic thought. But these results show how far
from the national mood the politicians have strayed.

In Britain, the spectacular success of UKIP in knocking the Lib Dems into fourth
place, leaving Labour and the Tories with less than 50 per cent of the vote
between them, has (for now at least) rewritten the electoral map. We are
witnessing a great surge of protest from a public that has had enough.

And it isn't only happening in Britain.

The dismally low turnout in the rest of the EU reflects a deep well of
disenchantment, as does increasing support for the eurosceptic cause.

So what will be the impact on the political battle at home? For the Tories, the
European results may have taken some of the gloss from local election success,
but there is still everything to play for.

After all, despite their miserable 26 per cent in European elections, they still
came top in all last week's contests.

Moreover, won't most who voted UKIP this time be inclined to return to the Tory
fold come the General Election, given the choice of either supporting a
eurosceptic Conservative party that wants to repatriate huge powers from
Brussels or a Labour party that wants to surrender our sovereignty under a
European constitution and do away with the pound?

No, the biggest loser in this debacle is a Prime Minister determined to take
Britain to the heart of Europe.

Having led his party to disaster in local elections, he trails in Europe with
just 22 per cent of the vote the lowest Labour figure since 1910. No wonder
colleagues fear he has become an electoral liability.

And now the fraught issue of the EU constitution comes to a head this weekend.
So what does Mr Blair do?

In the past, like other EU leaders, the Prime Minister has paid scant attention
to what voters think. But he is badly wounded by Iraq. He is widely mistrusted.

He faces a General Election next year.

Can he possibly afford to sign this immensely significant document, when he
hasn't the shred of a democratic mandate?

And isn't it evidence of the chasm between rulers and the ruled that if he
doesn't do it, he will incur the mortal enmity of EU leaders who seem baffled by
the principle of democratic consent?

Truly, these are fascinating times.

Signs of promise

ALWAYS be sure to bounce back. After a less than sparkling performance in
Europe, Michael Howard moves swiftly to bring a sharper edge to his front bench.

It was always a mistake to have the two key jobs of shadowing health and
education in the hands of one spokesman, Tim Yeo. Now the sparky Tim Collins
takes over at Education, while Andrew Lansley, who also has something to prove,
takes on the crucial NHS portfolio.

And the fact that Mr Howard has appointed a Shadow Minister for the Family in
Theresa May suggests that maybe just maybe the Tories are beginning to reconnect
with their core values.

Of course they still have a huge journey to make. The need now is for original,
votewinning policies on health, education and public spending and more
pertinently the presentational skills to get them across to the electorate.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              241 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 15, 2004

THE HOUR of reckoning

BYLINE: MAX HASTINGS

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1087 words



A YEAR or so ago, I told one of Tony Blair's people that I was baffled, first
about why the Prime Minister wanted a third term and second, about what he
thought he might accomplish if he got one.

How could any sane person want to endure the strain of occupying Downing Street
for more than eight years? How could any politician fool himself that things he
has not achieved in two terms will become possible in a third ?

My acquaintance replied: 'Tony believes if he quits now, people will think he
has failed. But if he stays a bit longer, he will be seen to have brought peace
to Northern Ireland, improved public services and secured Britain's place in
Europe.' He added: 'When did you ever hear of a Prime Minister who knew when to
quit?' Even if the description of Blair's fantasies invites ridicule, the last
bit is patently true.

Margaret Thatcher had to be dragged out of Downing Street in 1990. John Major,
who inherited the ashes of her premiership, clung on even when the rest of
Britain was clamouring for a vet to do the humane thing.

Harold Wilson's only claims upon the nation's respect were that, as Prime
Minister, he kept Britain out of Vietnam and quit while he was ahead in 1976,
leaving the house of cards to collapse in Jim Callaghan's hands three years
later.

After a few years of being waited on hand and foot in Downing Street, most Prime
Ministers think they can walk on water. Tony Blair, believing God is on his
side, is under the illusion he can feed the five thousand as well.

Since he is obviously determined not to heed the message from millions of voters
last week, someone will have to tell him. He has been rumbled. He has run out of
steam. He has shot his bolt. Come in Number 10, your time is up.

The British people have not fallen in love with the Tories, but they have had
enough of Tony.

If I were a Labour MP, especially one occupying a marginal seat, I would not for
a moment heed stern imprecations from the party's good and great: 'No panic!
Steady as she goes!' I would panic. I would change leaders quick.

This is not because Gordon Brown is likely to prove a great Prime Minister.

He clings to the old Labour belief that the state knows best how to spend our
money. As Chancellor, he has expanded the state payroll in a way any Stalinist
would respect.

Yet Gordon might prosper at a General Election, simply because he is not Tony.
Blair, the great winner of elections, has become an electoral liability.

Our disillusionment with him is great, because, back in 1997, he encouraged us
to expect so much. Some of us were pathetically grateful for a new Prime
Minister who promised so much after the embarrassments of the Major era.

It took some of us a while to ask: how can a Prime Minister who waves his moral
purpose like a banner choose as his closest associates such men as Alastair
Campbell and Peter Mandelson, after shaking hands with whom even friends count
their fingers?

How can Blair even now, in dire political straits, consider Mandelson as
Britain's EU Commissioner, unless on the grounds that the moral climate in
Brussels will suit dear Peter's health perfectly?

Blair brought God into government in a way Thatcher and Churchill never did.

He dispatched British troops on foreign crusades in tandem with his fellow
believer George W., and harangued the Labour Party Conference about his
determination to make the world a better place.

In the name of greater democracy, he gave John Prescott licence to create
elected regional assemblies, the most expensive and fatuous jobcreation scheme
for a minister since Blair handed his chum Lord Falconer the Greenwich Dome as
sheltered housing.

Thatcher was accused of stubbornness for clinging to the poll tax. Yet Tony
Blair clings to a visibly bungling U.S.

president, and joins the White House in endorsing Israel's West Bank
settlements.

The evidence suggests that the Prime Minister has parted company with real
politics. He is merely stumbling on, in pursuit of his personal vision.

He proposes to fly to Brussels on Thursday to negotiate ratification of the
European constitution, as if last week's howl of rage from the British people
holds no meaning for him.

He has just appointed as director of the Secret Service Alastair Campbell's
avowed 'mate' John Scarlett, the man responsible for one of the gravest failures
of intelligence analysis in modern times, about WMD in Iraq.

Like Mandelson's candidacy for Brussels, Scarlett's elevation seems the act of a
premier who measures servants solely by their personal loyalty to him.

The British people get really serious about politics, and vote accordingly, at
only about one General Election in four. Those of 1945, 1964, 1979 and 1997
spring to mind.

For seven years Tony Blair has enjoyed a charmed life because of the strength of
the economy and housing market, which still defy gravity. Most people are not
yet suffering enough to riot in Trafalgar Square as they did against the poll
tax.

Yet the huge arrogance of New Labour has stirred a rising resentment. Europe and
uncontrolled immigration are the most visible manifestations of Blair's
ambitions and failures.

One of his Government's most notable follies is the introduction of human rights
legislation, which has caused misery, expense and dismay for all save avaricious
lawyers. Yet New Labour seems indifferent to the human rights of the ordinary
people of Britain.

Blair's party is seeking to impose a value system which has no room for
tolerance or dissent, which reflects the prejudices of a new liberal
metropolitan ruling class, and cares nothing for those outside it.

It may be suggested that the European election results symbolise Arnold
Schwarzenegger's arrival in British politics.

Yet it seems wholly understandable that many voters have chosen to support some
silly candidates of the UKIP, rather than endorse a Government which has
betrayed the British people.

The Labour Party has never liked Tony Blair. It accepted his leadership only in
order to win elections, because it saw that people trusted him.

Now that trust is gone, it is hard to see why his MPs should let him stay in
Downing Street.

If Labour doesn't dump Blair, the electorate will soon have a chance to get shot
of Labour.

Nothing makes ministers feel more ruthless towards their leader than a
realisation that if he sinks, they might have to go down with him. Just ask
Margaret Thatcher.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              242 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 15, 2004

Don't worry too much about ukip mr howard

BYLINE: STEPHEN GLOVER

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1125 words



MOST commentators have got so used to the idea that the Tories are unelectable
that it will take a landslide to convince them otherwise. Last week, we were
solemnly assured that they had performed disappointingly in the local elections.
Yesterday, the airwaves were thick with voices telling us that in the European
elections held at the same time, the Tories really had bombed.

According to the BBC, it was their worst showing since 1832. I am not sure how
they worked that one out. It was widely conceded that Labour had also done
badly, but not nearly so badly as the poor benighted Tories under their
allegedly ineffectual new leader, Michael Howard.

Listening to all this babble, you would not imagine that the Tories had won a
greater percentage of votes, and more seats, in the European elections than any
other party - just as they did in the local elections.

With a breathtaking disregard for their own party's performance, Government
ministers have been pouring scorn on the Conservatives' results.

Meanwhile, there are even some rumblings within the Tories' own ranks.

In truth, the Tories did quite well in the local elections. As a party, they did
less well, though by no means disastrously, in the European elections.

But judged as the major constituent of the eurosceptic Right, the Tories were
much more successful.

Combined, the Tories and UKIP won getting on for half the vote.

You could say that the Tories put in only a poor to middling performance by
themselves, but that, as a whole, the forces of euroscepticism have triumphed.

Of course, some people insist on seeing UKIP as a rival of the Tories, leeching
away its life blood. That would be an accurate description if UKIP were a normal
political party. But, as its new star, Robert Kilroy-Silk, cheerfully admitted
yesterday, it is a single-issue party, that issue being Europe. As a result,
UKIP is never likely to do so well at General Elections, where Europe is
regarded by voters merely as one of several important issues, or at local
elections. Last Thursday, UKIP achieved 16 per cent of the vote in the European
elections, but made much less impact in the local ones.

UKIP IS therefore not a threat to the Tories as it would be if it were a
conventional party with a rival set of policies. In a sense it is almost an
ally. It is true that most of UKIP's voters were refugees from the Conservatives
(though some, too, came from Labour, and a few even from the Lib Dems) and no
party likes to see its voters going elsewhere. But in this case, the defection
is only temporary.

There is every reason to suppose that the Tories who flirted with UKIP will
return to the fold when they are needed at the next General Election.

Roughly speaking, the Tories lost the same percentage of the vote (as compared
to the last European elections in 1999) as UKIP gained. But whereas in 1999
there was only one significant eurosceptic party, namely the Tories, now there
are two.

Michael Howard has a further advantage. Previously stigmatised by the Government
as an extreme eurosceptic, he can now represent himself the leader of the more
moderate of the two sizeable eurosceptic parties.

UKIP proposes outright withdrawal, whereas the Tories only argue that some
treaties should be renegotiated.

The combined electoral success of the Conservative Party and UKIP in effect
establishes an anti-European veto. These two parties won a significantly larger
proportion of the votes than did the two pro-European parties, Labour and the
Lib Dems, together. In the face of such powerful euroscepticism, it seems
inconceivable that Tony Blair, in any case already weakened by criticism of his
policies on Iraq, will ever be able to persuade the British people to accept
either the federalising European constitution or British membership of the euro.

Avowedly eurosceptic parties did well in last week's elections in several
European countries, but nowhere has the tide of euroscepticism reached higher
than it has in Britain. Europhiles who habitually blame the newspapers for
promoting euroscepticism fatally miss the point. The Press points out what
people can see for themselves - a succession of measures which, while justified
in the name of the single market, have the effect of advancing political
integration.

ABOUT half of our laws emerge from Brussels, promulgated by men and women whose
names we will never know and for reasons that will never be explained.

The two-andthreequarter million people who voted UKIP, and the four-andahalf who
backed the Tories, are not, in the main, Little Englanders or xenophobes.

They are people who object to the ' democratic deficit' inherent in rule from
Brussels, and who resent the lies and pretence of this Government, which denies
the extension of centralising power that is plain for all to see.

How amusing to hear Kenneth Clarke, an increasingly lonely Tory europhile,
attribute UKIP's success to the failure of those who believe in Europe to put
their case. How amusing, too, to hear the Lib Dem leader, Charles Kennedy,
declare with characteristic smugness that his party has slightly increased its
share of the vote while missing the irony that it has been overtaken by UKIP,
which is as extreme in its opposition to Europe as he is in his embrace of it.

Mr Howard, it seems to me, is not at all in a bad position. The Tories are not
as strong as they should be at this stage of the political cycle. But Labour's
results in both the local and European elections are as bad as those of any
ruling party in living memory, and its leadership cannot reasonably look forward
to the next General Election with great confidence.

The Tory leader should resist the lure of those voices in his own party who urge
him to adopt the extreme anti-EU policies of UKIP. To be sure, he could afford
to be a little more acerbic about the EU than he has been prepared to be in the
recent past, in the knowledge that he has at least half the electorate on his
side. But he should not play UKIP's game. What would be the point? The middle
ground will never be won over by UKIP-style rhetoric; and he has no need to
whore after UKIP's votes at the next General Election. They are already his.

That election will not be fought, or won, on Europe. But it is an important
issue and will become more so. Mr Blair will doubtless return from Brussels this
week promising us that he has negotiated the deal of a lifetime on the European
Constitution. But who will believe him? The people no longer trust politicians
who tell them that all will be well with the EU. That is the main message of
Thursday's European elections, which marked a great defeat for Tony Blair.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              243 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 15, 2004

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 493 words



THE Chief Rabbi's illustrious circle will be spared a schlep to the suburbs to
attend his soirees. Dr Jonathan Sacks has finally solved his two-yearlong
housing problem.The United Synagogue, his employer and landlord, said it could
not afford to renew the lease on his present home in Hamilton Terrace, one of
the smartest streets in St John's Wood, where Britain's Chief Rabbis have lived
since 1948. Threatened with a move to the north-west London suburbs, where he
grew up, Dr Sacks mounted a sustained behind-the-scenes campaign to resist.

Now the United Synagogue has bought the house for more than Pounds 3million,
passing the hat round to supporters such as Gerald Lipton, chairman of
Chinacraft, and the newly-ennobled Lord Kalms, president of Dixons.

THE first celebrity hairdresser, Leonard of Mayfair, who trimmed the Beatles'
locks in his salon at No 6, Upper Grosvenor Street, is 66 today. In the 1960s
his hands were insured for Pounds 1million. Today he lives in reduced
circumstances in his sister Irene's council flat in West London. He spent his
fortune on jewellery, parties and drink, but heart-warmingly, his famous
proteges, hairdressers Nicky Clarke and John Frieda, chip in with his bills.

KELLY Hoppen, 44, pictured, the classy interior designer who is romantically
involved with England defender Sol Campbell, is known as the Queen of Beige.

She is currently lending some tone to the lurid gathering of footballers' wives
and girlfriends in Portugal for Euro 2004. But what do her international clients
think of the weekend newspaper accounts claiming her paramour asked his last
girlfriend to abort their baby? One insider says: 'I think her reputation will
suffer. Her client list is stuffed full of people who don't want to read about
their interior designer in the tabloids, however restrained her palette.'

THE ghost of the late Tory politician and boulevardier Alan Clark haunts John
Sergeant, the gnome-like former political correspondent of the BBC, who never
got a scoop out of him. At a Q & A session in Cheltenham at the weekend he said:
'Clark was difficult for me because I am not a woman. He only had eyes for
female reporters. I fluttered my eyelashes at him, but it was not enough.'

ONE casualty of the European elections was the Earl of Stockton bearded and
jovial Alexander Macmillan, grandson of Harold Macmillan. He was fifth on the
Tories' list in the South West, and would have been elected had UKIP not nabbed
two seats. Perhaps his grandfather would have known how to take a sanguine view
of the defeat, blaming 'events, dear boy'.

Defeat means Stockton will have more time to spend in one of his five London
clubs.

A LAST word on the weeklong pomp of former President Ronald Reagan's funeral
last week comes from New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd.'Finally,' she says,
'there's a flag-draped coffin and military funeral that President Bush wants us
to see.'

END

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              244 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 15, 2004

Mr Blair did not have much hunger for an argument

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 664 words



CHUNKY Diane Abbott ( Lab, Hackney N) sat at the far end of the House yesterday
afternoon, wearing a pair of sunglasses. Sun specs in Parliament.

Well, well.

Tony Blair was waffling for Britain about last week's G8 summit.

The Prime Minister only had to turn slightly to see Miss Abbott parked there,
stolid and glum, like a Wallace Arnold coach driver waiting for passengers to
emerge from the roadside pub where they insisted stopping two hours ago for 'a
swift one'.

Maybe the dark glasses made Miss Abbott look a little like a nightclub bouncer,
or more apt, perhaps a mourner at some mafia funeral. I did check but could see
no sign of a violin case at her side.

Or perhaps Miss Abbott was simply being practical and had chosen to wear dark
glasses because she feared the sight of Peter Hain's sun tan.

After the hot weekend the Leader of the Commons is a shimmering mixture of
orange and caramel. Look at that complexion for too long with the naked eye and
you could do permanent damage to your retinas.

Mr Blair had rummaged in his attic of stock characters.

He had come out with the one we have seen before when he is in trouble with the
public: the one I think of as Pious Peter, a slightly hesitant charmer with an
alto regret in his voice and a prettyboy downward blush when he dares disagree
with opponents.

The Prime Minister spoke of Third World debt, the poor of Africa, even about
gender parity in the primary schools of Tanzania.

This was intended to make us all recognise the great achievements of the West
(and therefore-its Establishment politicians).

No hot air balloon was ever so high-minded as this inflated vessel.

Really, it was not so much a Commons statement as a Radio 4 'the week's good
cause' appeal.

Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy were almost as verbose.

There was a sense that all three party leaders were seizing the chance to speak
in Parliament to reinforce their credentials as statesmen, so different from the
iconoclasts of UKIP. Hardly anyone alluded to the recent election results.

The Government front bench was fairly full at the start of Mr Blair's statement
but soon its occupants started to feel their attention wander.

Their feet followed soon afterwards.

Mr Hain took an early exit. With him departed the faint whiff of Piz Buin.

David Blunkett, Home Secretary, lasted about 10 minutes until he remembered that
he had better things to do.

Gordon Brown did not depart, but that was because Gordon Brown had not arrived
in the first place. Too busy biting on a leather strap at the Treasury to
contain his laughter at Mr Blair's election disaster.

John Prescott was on parade, mouth an upturned saucer. A large envelope was
handed along the front bench as in a game of pass the parcel. It eventually
reached Two Jags and he opened it with the eagerness of a man thankful for
something interesting to do.

He worked a stubby finger into a hole and tore the paper with such gusto that
the rrrrrrrr-ip was picked up by the overhead microphones.

A rare moment of danger came when that priceless antique Sir Peter Tapsell (Con,
Louth) creaked to his Chippendale legs and snorted: 'Did the Prime Minister
apologise to G8 leaders for giving them false information before the war in
Iraq?' Labour MPs recoiled. 'Withdraw!' they wailed (they meant withdraw the
remark, not withdraw from Iraq, or Europe for that matter).

MR BLAIR paused, glanced at Sir Peter and then, quietly, replied in the
negative. He did not seem to have much hunger for an argument.

Tessa Jowell, Culture Secretary, had stayed in her place as long as she could.
One moment there she was, pink and June all over in a floral frock.

The next, pouff, she had vanished, a lily plucked from our midst.

Mr Prescott had also vanished.

By the end there was not a single Cabinet minister supporting Mr Blair on the
Government front bench. And that is most, most unusual.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              245 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 15, 2004

...Meanwhile, Scots Tories cheer

BYLINE: IAN SMITH

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 527 words



THE Tories last night hailed it a successful Euro election campaign which would
have secured the party 13 of its old heartland seats at a UK General Election.

But it was a disastrous night for SNP leader John Swinney, with the
Conservatives coming within 2 per cent of beating the Nationalists to become the
second largest party.

With 17.7 per cent of the vote across Scotland the Tories won resounding
victories in seats such as Ayr, Stirling, Edinburgh Pentlands and Eastwood.

While the polling at the Euro elections may not be exactly replicated at a
General Election, Tory leader David McLetchie described the result as strong
basis for a revival of the party.

He said: 'If this result was repeated at the General Election we would have 13
first- past- the- post constituencies at Westminster and we came second in
another 11.

'We are well on our way to achieving my goal of overtaking the SNP to establish
ourselves as the main opposition in Scotland.' If it had not been for UKIP
taking 6.68 per cent of the vote in Scotland, the Tories would almost certainly
have overtaken the SNP, which saw its share of the vote slump to 19.61 per cent,
down from 27 per cent at the last Euro elections and far behind Labour, which
scored 26.33 per cent.

But it was a hugely damaging result for Mr Swinney who was last night battling
internal unrest over the future leadership of the party.

Nationalist rebel MSP Campbell Martin, suspended for speaking out against Mr
Swinney, branded the leader a 'liability'. He said: 'If the SNP is to survive,
John Swinney must go.' But Mr Swinney called on his party to unite behind him,
warning that internal divisions would only chase even more voters away. He said:
'We need to focus on winning electorally.' Despite the shifts in the share of
the vote, there was little movement in terms of MEPs returned from Scotland.
Labour's Bill Miller lost out because the number of Scottish seats was cut from
eight to seven, with Labour going from three MEPs to two.

However, others returned included Labour's Catherine Stihler, Struan Stevenson
for the Tories and Alyn Smith for the SNP.

Labour sources last night turned on Mr Miller for failing to campaign strongly
enough and blamed him for the loss of the third seat.

Mr Miller allowed a feud with lead candidate David Martin to overshadow the
Labour campaign by refusing to share a platform with him at the party's launch.

As it turned out Labour, the Tories and the SNP all took two seats, while the
LibDems took the seventh place.

The surge of UKIP in England failed to cross the Border strongly enough to
deliver the party a seat, although it did register a higher share of the vote
than the Scottish Socialists.

With counting complete in all 72 Scottish Westminster constituencies the final
result was: British National Party 19,427, Operation Christian Vote 21,056,
Conservatives 209,028, Greens 79,695, Labour 310,865, Liberal Democrats 154,178,
SNP 231,505, Scottish Socialist Party 61,356, Scottish Wind Watch 7,255, UK
Independence Party 78,828, Fergus Tait 3,624.

The total of votes cast was 1,180,471.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              246 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 15, 2004

On Europe, they're ALL out of touch

BYLINE: JOHN MACLEOD

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1147 words



WHAT must Scottish Labour do to lose an election? Why did UKIP, their new MEPs
enthroned throughout England, go down in Caledonia like a concrete kite?

Must John Swinney do cartwheels in Jack McConnell's pinstriped mini-kilt before
the SNP finally have the sense to get rid of him?

While the United Kingdom Independence Party in Scotland may not have emulated
the success of its candidates in England, it was a key factor in the increased
Scots turnout (30.82 per cent, well up on 1999's 24 per cent). The party set the
agenda for the British contest as a whole. Yet the Scottish vote for UKIP, at
6.68 per cent, fell well short of its wider British performance (almost 18 per
cent) and well adrift of the 11 per cent or so needed to win a Scottish seat.

That won't stop UKIP crowing about its great Caledonian advance in 1999 it took
a mere 1.27 per cent share of the vote. But in Scotland it fought on
significantly more difficult terrain.

Ours is a four-party system, fighting elections in the polemical context of
Scotland's place in (or out) of the Union. On that localised constitutional
question, UKIP has little resonance.

Moreover, we already have a natural depository for the protest votes of the
disgruntled Tommy Sheridan's Scottish Socialist Party.

There was certainly a strong undercurrent of protest in this European poll many
Scots, if not exactly disgruntled, are far from being gruntled with the good
conduct of our rulers.

The support shown for UKIP was but one bloc of an increasingly impressive
tranche of votes for non-parliamentary fringe parties. Nearly a fifth of Scots
who voted eschewed traditional party lines for UKIP, the Greens (6.8 per cent),
the SSP (5.26 per cent), Operation Christian Vote and a variety of fairground
attractions.

Yet despite the remarkable sophistication of the Scots electorate in using the
new proportional representation voting system to vent our frustrations, a l l
parties except Labour emerged with just the same number of MEPs as they could
flaunt in 1999 and although Labour went from three to two seats, Scotland had
one European Parliament seat fewer in this election.

Relief

For most of us, this is a cause for elation and relief. UKIP did not, after all,
demolish the Scottish Tory revival. Despite a campaign that was all but
invisible, the Conservatives won a respectable 17.8 per cent of the Scottish
Euro vote and kept their two MEPs only a little down on their 1999 performance
and suggesting that, at least north of the Border, UKIP's vote was stolen fairly
evenly from the major parties.

The Liberal Democrats, too, continue to defy Scottish political gravity, with
12.7 per cent and retention of their single seat: Elspeth Attwooll may safely
spend the next five years being never heard of again at taxpayers' expense.

But the most astonishing aspect of the day is the solid Labour performance.

After the Holyrood debacle, after the Reliance prison security fiasco, after
Jack McConnell's ludicrous attempt to snub the D- Day anniversary, and with all
the baggage of Tony Blair and Iraq and President Bush and a host of
embarrassment, failures and little white lies, Labour in Scotland still managed
to top the poll, with 26.57 per cent of the vote.

Now there is little space for a party of government to crow when barely a
quarter of its citizens can bring themselves to vote for it. But it was just
enough to save two MEPs and

to keep Labour at the top of the Scottish pops by a healthy electoral margin.

It may well be that Scottish Labour's longsuffering support presently votes with
a pencil in one hand and its nose in the other, but it's dismal that, after
years of unceasing incompetence, cronyism and chicanery within the party, Scots
still trudge to the polls to vote for it like the Night of the Living Dead.

Fiefdom

But it does seem that Scottish Labour support has been carpetbombed to an
irreducible core of the very old, the very tribal and the very stupid and, in a
land where most of the Queen's subjects are still herded into vast and hideous
public housing schemes, there is more than a touch of the feudal about Labour's
tartan fiefdom.

The election has proved almost an entire calamity for the Scottish National
Party. To be sure, the SNP kept its two Euro seats. And, to be sure, no one save
perhaps John Swinney ever really believed the Nats, after years of decline and
increasing irrelevance, could actually win this election.

Their 2004 performance is far worse than recent SNP results in European
elections (in 1994 they won almost a third of the vote) and near identical with
their performance at the very first European Parliament election in 1979.

Yet this is a party whose celebrated veteran, Winnie Ewing, remains the most
famous British MEP of all time; a party which contends to be the chief force of
opposition in Scottish politics. To win less than a fifth of the votes of less
than a third of Scots who bothered to turn out in 2004 may yet confirm the SNP
in terminal decline.

What is certain is that on top of the party dropping votes and a seat in John
Swinney's first General Election contest; and then losing a quarter of his MSPs
in 2003, any sane SNP leader ought now to fall on his sword.

In less than four years, Mr Swinney has led his increasingly unhappy troupe from
debacle to demarche to dull disaster.

And yet, far from taking any responsibility for his sustained and wretched
failure, Mr Swinney's rhetoric defies reality.

To pretend he never boasted of an SNP advance beyond Labour in this poll as he

certainly did is weird. To deny that the SNP has actually done worse than at the
last European election is pathological. And to assert that these results 'are
broadly in line with what we achieved in the Scottish parliament elections last
year' is bonkers.

Every allowance has been made for Mr Swinney, and his most difficult Nationalist
inheritance; the time for allowance is past, and that for responsibility and
sanctions has come.

Sacrificed

Since 2000, Mr Swinney has called for sacrifice and heroic endeavours from his
Nationalist rank and file; it is now high time he himself sacrificed the seals
of office.

Yet what are Scots but part of a greater realm? None of us should make too much
of the difficulties UKIP might pose for Michael Howard and the Tories.

United Kingdom voters are not fools and they are unlikely to give UKIP much
place in anointing the next government of Britain.

It is the Prime Minister, not Mr Howard, who is in most imminent danger of
losing his job. As Tony Blair jets forth on his latest and most difficult
European adventure, increasingly tinny, tired and faded, it is he who seems most
spectacularly at odds with the national zeitgeist. Although not yet destroyed,
he is now entombed.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              247 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 15, 2004

NATS LEADER FAILS IN EURO PLEDGE TO BEAT LABOUR; ELECTION DISASTER FOR SNP'S
SWINNEY

BYLINE: by KERRY GILL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 455 words


THE future of Scottish National Party leader John Swinney was in doubt last
night after his party suffered a Euro elections disaster.

SNP leader Swinney - under pressure from his enemies - had pledged to overtake
Labour at last Thursday's vote.

But far from being the number one party in Scotland, the Nats were pushed all
the way by the thirdplaced Tories.

Yesterday Swinney admitted the SNP's internal rows had hit them hard. He said:
"One of the things the SNP has to think long and hard about is whether the
public support political parties that present themselves as being internally
divided.

"There's a long history of political parties - the Conservative Party, Labour
Party, the Liberal Democrats and, I'm afraid to say, the Scottish National Party
at times - where internal division has been to the fore.

"It doesn't make it easy for people to vote for us if we are divided
internally."

Labour clung on to two of the seven Scottish seats in the European Parliament
with the Tories and SNP keeping two each and the Lib Dems holding on to their
single seat.

Only 894 votes stopped Labour from grabbing a third seat.

Labour's lead candidate David Martin said he was "delighted" by the result. "The
voters in Scotland clearly decided to give Labour a shake rather than a kick,
but we will nevertheless learn the lessons of this campaign and make sure we
improve our performance in the future. The public also showed understanding that
difficult decisions have to be made in government."

The UK Independence Party (UKIP) did not make the same size of breakthrough in
Scotland as south of the Border, although they won just slightly fewer votes
than the Greens.

The Tories came third, comfortably ahead of the Lib Dems and may have beaten the
SNP if they had not lost votes to the UKIP.

Scottish Tory leader David McLetchie said: "I am delighted with our result in
Scotland - winning two seats out of seven, which is an improvement on two out of
eight.

"We have improved our share of the vote on the Scottish Parliament election. We
are now breathing down the neck of the SNP - roll on the general election."

Lib Dem leader Jim Wallace called it an excellent result for the Scottish Lib
Dems, who had increased their share of the vote compared with the last European
elections."

It wasa disappointing night for the Scottish Socialists - they were beaten into
a distant sixth place behind UKIP.

The 31 per cent turnout was well above predictions that it was going to be a
miserable 20 per cent.

MEPs - Labour: David Martin and Catherine Stihler. SNP: Ian Hudghton and Alyn
Smith.

Scottish Tories: Struan Stevenson and John Purvis. Liberal Democrat: Elspeth
Attwooll.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              248 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 15, 2004

DAILY STAR SAYS

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 140 words


EVERYONE loves an underdog.

Ever since David got one in the eye over Goliath, punters have backed the little
guy.

Now Robert KilroySilk's United Kingdom Independence Party is the latest
pipsqueak calling the big shots.

Nabbing ranks of MEPs in the Euro elections was a stunning triumph. But once the
bubbles of English sparkling wine have burst, get ready for the hangover.

Getting 16% of the votes in Westminster's first -past -the-post won't win a
single MP. In fact, UKIP is more likely to split the right-wing, antiBrussels
vote.

And that will help Labour.

Just like when the England footie team takes on France, the plucky contender
rarely triumphs over the seasoned champion.

It's cruel, but true.

So don't bet against Tony Blair strolling back into Downing Street for an
historic third term. Yet.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              249 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 15, 2004

TORIES PANIC

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


JITTERY Tory leader Michael Howard unveiled a shock Shadow Cabinet reshuffle
last night.

It's the clearest sign yet of panic in the top parties following UKIP's Euro
poll success.

The biggest reshuffle victim was Tim Yeo who switched from Health spokesman to
Environment and Transport.

Andrew Lansley took over Health.

The Tories only reeled in 26% of the Euro vote and Labour got 22%.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              250 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 15, 2004

I'LL KIL OFF EUR GRAVY TRAIN!

BYLINE: by MACER HALL, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 218 words


TRIUMPHANT Robert Kilroy-Silk pledged last night to "wreck" the European
parliament.

Celebrating the UK Independence Party's amazing showing at the polls, he vowed
to expose "waste and corruption" in Brussels.

A.CO .UK And he promised to reveal the way it is "eroding our independence and
sovereignty". The former chat show host, sipping a glass of English sparkling
wine, said he would turn UKIP into a major political force.

It won 12 seats and a whopping 16% of the vote in the European elections.

When asked what he wanted to do to the Brussels talking shop, Mr Kilroy-Silk
said: "Wreck it!"

He said the party's MEPs would show how the Euro fat cats "go on the gravy train
and spend their time in restaurants and the rest of it."

He added: "That's what we are there to do - to expose the whole edifice."

But he admitted the party's MEPs will pocket the GBP 60,000-plus annual salary
and the expenses members of the parliament claim.

He refused to rule out standing for a Westminster seat, with by-elections in
Leicester and his native Birmingham expected next month.

UKIP is reported to have recruited Dick Morris, the man behind the election
triumphs of ex-US President Bill Clinton.

And campaign chief Nigel Farage boasted yesterday: "UKIP is now unstoppable."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              251 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Howard shuffles team as UKIP rattles MPs

BYLINE: By George Jones, Toby Helm and Benedict Brogan

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 490 words

TONY BLAIR and Michael Howard attempted last night to switch the political
debate back to the general election battleground of public services after their
worst performances for decades in the European elections.

The UK Independence Party celebrated quadrupling its Euro-MPs to 12 by declaring
it wanted to become a mass movement and was making plans to contest Westminster
seats next year.

Asked what he hoped to do in the European Parliament, the newly-elected Euro-MP
Robert Kilroy-Silk said: "Wreck it. Expose it for the waste and the corruption
and the way it is eroding our independence and our sovereignty.

"Our job is to go there and say 'look, this is what they do, this is how they
waste your money, this is how they spend it, this is how it gets corrupted, this
is how they go on the gravy train and spend their time in restaurants and the
rest of it'."

Labour's 23 per cent share of the vote was its lowest in any national election
since shortly after the First World War, when the party was in its infancy.

The Tories while gaining the most Euro MPs, saw their share of the vote drop
from 36 per cent in 1999 to 27 per cent - their lowest in any nationwide
election since 1832. As Tory and Labour MPs returned to Westminster badly
rattled by UKIP's success, Mr Howard announced a snap reshuffle of his shadow
cabinet to place greater emphasis on policies for health and education.

At a packed, private meeting of Labour MPs at Westminster last night, Mr Blair
admitted the local and European elections were "a bad set of results".

But he rejected a demand from one backbencher to "apologise" for the Iraq war.

Mr Blair maintained that with the new UN resolution and a handover of power,
Iraq would be "in a different place" when the election was fought in a year's
time.

He said Labour had a "great story to tell and the right agenda for the country".
But he conceded the public needed
to know "we are controlling events, not events controlling us".

As Tory and Labour MPs returned to Westminster badly rattled by UKIP's success,
Mr Howard announced a snap reshuffle of his shadow cabinet to place greater
emphasis on health and education.

Despite UKIP's success Mr Howard told a meeting of Tory backbenchers there would
be no change on European policy. He called for strict party discipline, saying
he was not interested in "leading a debating society".

Party sources acknowledged this was an attempt to present a positive image and
avoid headlines about Tory splits over Europe. The reshuffle ended an
unsuccessful experiment in which responsibility for health and education were
merged under one portfolio headed by Tim Yeo.

His deputies Andrew Lansley and Tim Collins were promoted to a 14-strong shadow
cabinet as spokesmen on education and health respectively.

Mr Yeo takes over environment and transport, replacing Theresa May, who has been
downgraded to the role of shadow secretary for the family.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              252 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Labour gives up pretence to face prospect of defeat

BYLINE: By Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 469 words

AFTER some valiant but futile late-night efforts by Cabinet ministers to defend
the indefensible, Labour finally gave up pretending early yesterday.

It had suffered its worst election results since shortly after the First World
War and, in the cold light of day, not even the party that invented spin could
find a good word to say.

Ian McCartney, the party chairman, and Lord Falconer, the Constitutional Affairs
Secretary, had tried to trick people on late-night television into thinking that
this had been a Tory disaster rather than a Labour one.

And Peter Mandelson, in an article in yesterday's London Evening Standard, made
a lonely attempt to pin blame for the collapse of Labour's vote on constant
"Blair bashing" by the press and former Cabinet ministers such as Robin Cook.
But people are not stupid. Even Mr McCartney and Lord Falconer had the look of
men who knew Labour had just had its biggest electoral kicking in living memory
and had emerged very badly bruised. As Labour MPs met at the House of Commons
yesterday, the mood was grim and workmanlike.

There was talk of the need for a summer Cabinet reshuffle, to sack Mr MacCartney
for failed local and European campaigns, and to weed out the greyer Cabinet
ministers such as Geoff Hoon, the Defence Secretary, and Andrew Smith, Secretary
of State for Work and Pensions. For the first time since Neil Kinnock was leader
there was a real fear that Labour could lose the next general election. A former
minister with the ear of Tony Blair made no attempt to hide how serious the
inner circle believed Labour's plight could soon become.

"A lot will depend on what happens in the next two weeks," he said. "What would
turn bad results into a disaster would be if this was all followed by
in-fighting in the party. We have got to show we can roll with the punches." It
was no good, he added, hiding behind the pretence that the 16 per cent of the
vote for UKIP would split the opposition vote and therefore allow Labour back in
at the next election.

"If we are saying that two thirds of the UKIP vote came from natural Tories who
will probably return to the Conservatives at the next election, then they [the
Tories] are not polling badly." Last night Mr Blair addressed a packed meeting
of the Parliamentary Labour Party in the Commons. He insisted that in a year's
time there would have been considerable progress in Iraq. The party needed to
start focusing, therefore, on the issues that would win the next election - the
economy and public services. Those who emerged said there was no real warmth for
the leader.

Labour MPs have got used to winning elections and in so doing have become more
ruthless. If he fails to reassure them in the coming weeks, they may become
increasingly impatient to find someone else to lead them who can.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              253 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Political village shaken to foundations

BYLINE: by Anthony King

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 3409 words

THE European parliamentary elections buried almost the entire Westminster
village under a torrential mudslide. The house that was New Labour almost
vanished. The Conservative cottage, which looked so neat and trim after last
week's local elections, had its roof torn off.

The inhabitants are putting a brave face on the catastrophe, claiming that such
events occur only rarely and they will quickly rebuild once better weather
comes. They may be right but the scale of the disaster shows how rickety most of
the village's older structures had become.

Labour fared worst. Its share of the vote, 23 per cent, was its lowest in any
national election since shortly after the First World War, when the party was
still in its infancy.

The general election of 1931 - fought soon after Ramsay MacDonald deserted
Labour to form his Tory-dominated National Government - is seared into Labour's
collective memory as marking the nadir of its electoral fortunes. But Labour
secured a respectable 31 per cent of that vote, fully eight points higher than
now.

Labour saw its returns crumble in almost every one of Britain's nine regions and
two nations. Only in Wales, where Plaid Cymru collapsed, did Labour's share of
the vote hold up. In London, Labour lost a quarter of its vote compared with the
1999 Euro elections. In the Eastern region, it lost a third, in the North-East a
fifth. If the local elections were bad for Labour - and they were - the Euros
were even worse.

With Labour faltering, the Government ill-regarded and Tony Blair himself little
trusted, the Conservatives as the principal opposition party should have
functioned as the people's bulldozer - as Labour did when John Major's
Government was similarly unpopular in the Nineties.

Not so. The Tory share of the vote, far from rising steeply, actually fell -
from 36 per cent in 1999 to 27 per cent now. Compared with the 2001 general
election, the Conservative vote fell by almost a fifth. Viewed against last
week's local elections, it fell by almost a third.

As in Labour's case, a substantial portion of the Tory support was washed away
in almost every part of the country. In the West Midlands five years ago, the
Conservatives secured 38 per cent of the Euro vote. This time around they could
manage only 27 per cent.

In Yorkshire and the Humber, they fared even worse - down from 37 per cent five
years ago to 25 per cent.

The Conservatives may have "won" the Euro elections in the restricted sense that
- in a crowded field - they won more votes and seats than anyone else. But it is
a strange kind of victory that leaves the victors considerably worse off than
before and showing few signs of making any real recovery.

The Labour Party under Tony Blair in the mid-Nineties was clearly on a roll. The
Conservatives at the moment do not appear to be rolling anywhere in particular.

The night belonged to a bunch of relative newcomers: the UK Independence Party.
YouGov's polls for The Daily Telegraph detected the distant rumblings of UKIP
last month. The rumblings had become a loud roar by the time the polls closed.

Although the UKIP share of the total vote, 16 per cent, was lower than either
the Tories' or Labour's, it was more than double the party's share at the last
European elections and, unlike both the Tories and Labour, UKIP advanced
everywhere. Its vote trebled in the East Midlands and doubled in Yorkshire and
the Humber, the Eastern region, the South-East and the South-West.

In the previous European Parliament, UKIP had three seats. In the new Parliament
it has 12 (and very nearly captured a thirteenth). Labour's representation in
Strasbourg has fallen from 29 to 19, the Conservatives' from 36 to 27.

In the old parliament Labour and the Conservatives controlled 77 per cent of
Britain's Strasbourg representation. That proportion has fallen to 61 per cent.

UKIP's progress was mainly, but not only, at the expense of the Conservatives.

The results confirmed what the opinion polls were suggesting. Roughly a quarter
of people who said they would back the Tories at a general election also said
they intended to vote for UKIP candidates in the Euro elections. A large
proportion evidently did just that. Needless to say, UKIP also secured the
support of many voters who would otherwise have backed one of the other parties
or else stayed at home, but the core of UKIP's support is clearly Tory.

One of the few consolations for the Tories in the Euro results - apart from
Labour's poor performance - is the high probability that many of those who voted
UKIP this time around will back the Conservatives when the time comes actually
to choose a British government. Although UKIP, in line with YouGov's
predictions, beat the Liberal Democrats into fourth place, the Liberal Democrats
did reasonably well, faring in the Euros much as they did in the locals.

In the local elections, the Liberal Democrat vote fell slightly. In Europe, it
rose slightly. In the old parliament the Liberal Democrats had 10 MEPs. They now
have 12, even though the size of Britain's Strasbourg contingent has been
reduced.

However, to focus exclusively on the four main parties, including UKIP, is to
miss a large part of the point.

No fewer than 3,224,532 voters - fully 19 per cent of the total - chose to go to
the polls or vote by post rather than abstain - and, having chosen to vote,
decided to back a party other than one of the big four.

If their votes are added together, these "other" parties, rather than either
UKIP or the Liberal Democrats, finished third behind the Tories and Labour.

Throughout Britain six per cent voted Green - almost exactly the same proportion
as last time - and the Greens succeeded in returning both of their sitting MEPs.

In Wales, although Plaid Cymru's voting share fell, it returned one MEP. In
Scotland the SNP share was down but it returned two.

However, that still leaves 1,804,856 voters - 11 per cent of the total -
unaccounted for. In other words, almost two million people chose to vote for
parties and independent candidates they must have known, in the great majority
of cases, had no chance of winning. The great majority must have voted to make a
point rather than influence an outcome.

The voters - or at least the 38 per cent who turned out - have thus spoken. What
have they been saying?

They have certainly been saying that they do not admire the Blair Government.
They have also been saying they are not over-impressed by the Conservative
Opposition.

In addition, a large proportion has undoubtedly taken advantage of the European
elections to indicate disapproval, specifically, of the onward march of European
integration. As YouGov surveys show, only a minority of British voters wants the
UK to withdraw completely from the EU. But a substantial majority is certainly
Euro-sceptic, believing that Britain should remain in the EU, but with the EU's
powers over member states restricted.

Majority opinion is undoubtedly closer to the Conservative views on Europe than
to UKIP's.

However, it is almost certainly true that these election results - with such a
large proportion of voters turning their backs on all the main parties -
represent a kind of people's revolt against the whole political class.

In an era of rapid social change, millions of people feel at best disorientated,
at worst alienated.

They look for someone or some body to blame. One obvious scapegoat is Europe,
which can be associated with almost every change people dislike. Another obvious
scapegoat is "the politicians"- whether or not they are actually able to control
social change.

Millions of people at these elections voted "No" to both Europe and the
politicians.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

Key to parties

C - Conservative; Lab - Labour; LD - Liberal Democrat; PC - Plaid Cymru; SNP -
Scottish National Party; Green - Green; Lower Tax - Account For Lower Scottish
Taxes; AGS - Alliance for Green Socialism; Alt Lab - Alternative Labour; ACPFCA
- Anti-Corruption Pro Family Christian Alliance; AHRPE - Architect Human Rights
Peace In Europe; BNP - British National Party; CDP - Christian Democratic Party;
CPA - Christian Peoples Alliance; Countryside - Countryside Party; EDP -

English Democrats Party; EFP - English Freedom Party; Forward - Forward Wales;
Humanist - Humanist Party; Ind - Independent; Anti VAT - Independent Anti Value
Added Tax; Ind H - Independent Halliday; Ind Hum - Independent Humanist Party;
Ind Profit - Independent Making A Profit In Europe; Ind Naisbitt Independent
Naisbitt; Ind Stable - Independent Open Democracy For Stability; Ind R -
Independent Rogers; Lib - Liberal; MEP Ind - MEP Independent Labour; NLP -

Natural Law Party; ND - No

Description; OCV - Operation Christian Vote; Peace - Peace Party - Non-violence,
Justice, Environment; Pensioners - Pensioners Party; PPBG - People's Party for
Better Government; Pro Euro C - Pro Euro Conservative Party; Prolife - Prolife;
Respect - Respect the Unity Coalition; SSP - Scottish Socialist Party; Senior -
Senior Citizens Party; Soc All - Socialist Alliance; Soc Lab - Socialist Labour
Party; SPGB - Socialist Party of Great Britain; CG - The Common Good; Hemp - The

Hemp Coalition; UKIP - UK Independence Party; WW - Weekly Worker; Wind Watch -
Wind Watch

Northern Ireland:

Green - Green; UUP - Ulster Unionist Party; DUP - Democratic Unionist Party;
SDLP - Social Democratic and Labour Party; SF - Sinn Fein; Alliance - Alliance;
Ind - Independent; NLP - Natural Law Party; PUP - Progressive Unionist Party;
Soc Env - Socialist Environmental Alliance; UKU - United Kingdom Unionist

The results

East Midlands (Derby; Derbyshire; Leicester; Leicestershire; Lincolnshire;
Northamptonshire; Nottingham; Nottinghamshire; Rutland)

Additional members elected: Roger Helmer (C); Chris Heaton-Harris (C); Phillip
Whitehead (Lab); Bill Newton Dunn (LD); Robert Kilroy-Silk (UKIP); Derek Clark (
UKIP).

Party Share:

C 371,362 (26.40%)

UKIP 366,498 (26.05%)

Lab 294,918 (20.97%)

LD 181,964 (12.94%)

BNP 91,860 (6.53%)

Green 76,633 (5.45%)

Respect 20,009 (1.42%)

Ind R 2,615 (0.19%)

Ind H 847 (0.06%)

Electorate 3,241,566. Turnout 43.40%.

1999: C maj 78,906 (10.90%); Turnout 723,733 (22.83%); C 285,662 (39.47%); Lab
206,756 (28.57%); LD 92,398 (12.77%); UKIP 54,800 (7.57%); Green 38,954 (5.38%);
Alt Lab 17,409 (2.41%); Pro Euro C 11,359 (1.57%); BNP 9,342 (1.29%); Soc Lab
5,528 (0.76%); NLP 1,525 (0.21%).

Eastern (Bedfordshire; Cambridgeshire; Essex; Hertfordshire; Luton; Norfolk;
Peterborough; Southend-on-Sea; Suffolk; Thurrock)

Additional members elected: Geoffrey Van Orden (C); Robert Sturdy (C);
Christopher Beazley (C); Richard Howitt (Lab); Andrew Duff (LD); Jeffrey Titford
(UKIP); Tom Wise (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 465,526 (30.82%)

UKIP 296,160 (19.61%)

Lab 244,929 (16.22%)

LD 211,378 (14.00%)

Ind 93,028 (6.16%)

Green 84,068 (5.57%)

BNP 65,557 (4.34%)

EDP 26,807 (1.78%)

Respect 13,904 (0.92%)

Ind Naisbitt 5,137 (0.34%)

Prolife 3,730 (0.25%)

Electorate 4,137,374. Turnout 36.50%.

1999: C maj 174,959 (17.59%); Turnout 994,438 (24.74%); C 425,091 (42.75%); Lab
250,132 (25.15%); LD 118,822 (11.95%); UKIP 88,452 (8.89%); Green 61,334
(6.17%); Lib 16,861 (1.70%); Pro Euro C 16,340 (1.64%); BNP 9,356 (0.94%); Soc
Lab 6,143 (0.62%); NLP 1,907 (0.19%).

London

Additional members elected: Theresa Villiers (C); John Bowis (C); Charles
Tannock (C); Claude Moraes (Lab); Mary Honeyball (Lab); Robert Evans (Lab);
Sarah Ludford (LD); Jean Lambert (Green); Gerard Batten (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 504,941 (26.78%)

Lab 466,584 (24.75%)

LD 288,790 (15.32%)

UKIP 232,633 (12.34%)

Green 158,986 (8.43%)

Respect 91,175 (4.84%)

BNP 76,152 (4.04%)

CPA 45,038 (2.39%)

EDP 15,945 (0.85%)

PPBG 5,205 (0.28%)

Electorate 5,054,957. Turnout 37.30%.

1999: Lab maj 26,477 (2.32%); Turnout 1,141,225 (23.10%); Lab 399,466 (35.00%);
C 372,989 (32.68%); LD 133,058 (11.66%); Green 87,545 (7.67%); UKIP 61,741
(5.41%); Soc Lab 19,632 (1.72%); BNP 17,960 (1.57%); Lib 16,951 (1.49%); Pro
Euro C 16,383 (1.44%); AHRPE 4,851 (0.43%); Anti VAT 2,596 (0.23%); Humanist
2,586 (0.23%); Hemp 2,358 (0.21%); NLP 2,263 (0.20%); WW 846 (0.07%).

North East (County Durham; Darlington; Hartlepool; Middlesbrough;
Northumberland; Redcar & Cleveland; Stockton-on-Tees; Tyne & Wear)

Additional members elected: Martin Callanan (C); Stephen Hughes (Lab); Fiona
Hall (LD).

Party Share:

Lab 266,057 (34.09%)

C 144,969 (18.57%)

LD 138,791 (17.78%)

UKIP 94,887 (12.16%)

BNP 50,249 (6.44%)

Ind 39,658 (5.08%)

Green 37,247 (4.77%)

Respect 8,633 (1.11%)

Electorate 1,911,562. Turnout 40.83%.

1999: Lab maj 57,000 (14.78%); Turnout 385,741 (19.74%); Lab 162,573 (42.15%); C
105,573 (27.37%); LD 52,070 (13.50%); UKIP 34,063 (8.83%); Green 18,184 (4.71%);
Soc Lab 4,511 (1.17%); BNP 3,505 (0.91%); Pro Euro C 2,926 (0.76%); SPGB 1,510
(0.39%); NLP 826 (0.21%).

North West (Blackburn-with-Darwen; Blackpool; Cheshire; Cumbria; Greater
Manchester; Halton; Lancashire; Merseyside; Warrington)

Additional members elected: Den Dover (C); David Sumberg (C); Sir Robert Atkins
(C); Gary Titley (Lab); Arlene McCarthy (Lab); Terry Wynn (Lab); Chris Davies
(LD); Saj Karim (LD); John Whittaker (UKIP).

Party Share:

Lab 576,388 (27.51%)

C 509,446 (24.32%)

LD 335,063 (15.99%)

UKIP 247,158 (11.80%)

BNP 134,958 (6.44%)

Green 117,393 (5.60%)

Lib 96,325 (4.60%)

EDP 34,110 (1.63%)

Respect 24,636 (1.18%)

Countryside 11,283 (0.54%)

Prolife 10,084 (0.48%)

Ind 8,318 (0.40%)

Electorate 5,151,964. Turnout 40.67%.

1999: C maj 9,516 (0.94%); Turnout 1,017,194 (19.67%); C 360,027 (35.39%); Lab
350,511 (34.46%); LD 119,376 (11.74%); UKIP 66,779 (6.57%); Green 56,828
(5.59%); Lib 22,640 (2.23%); BNP 13,587 (1.34%); Soc Lab 11,338 (1.11%); Pro
Euro C 9,816 (0.97%); ACPFCA 2,251 (0.22%); NLP 2,114 (0.21%); Ind Hum 1,049
(0.10%); WW 878 (0.09%).

Scotland

Additional members elected: Struan Stevenson (C); John Purvis (C); David Martin
(Lab); Catherine Stihler (Lab); Elspeth Attwooll (LD); Ian Hudghton (SNP); Alyn
Smith (SNP).

Party Share:

Lab 310,865 (26.42%)

SNP 231,505 (19.67%)

C 209,028 (17.76%)

LD 154,178 (13.10%)

Green 79,695 (6.77%)

UKIP 78,828 (6.70%)

SSP 61,356 (5.21%)

OCV 21,056 (1.79%)

BNP 19,427 (1.65%)

Wind Watch 7,255 (0.62%)

Ind 3,624 (0.31%)

Electorate 3,809,111. Turnout 30.89%.

1999: Lab maj 14,962 (1.51%); Turnout 988,310 (24.83%); Lab 283,490 (28.68%);
SNP 268,528 (27.17%); C 195,296 (19.76%); LD 96,971 (9.81%); Green 57,142
(5.78%); SSP 39,720 (4.02%); Pro Euro C 17,781 (1.80%); UKIP 12,549 (1.27%); Soc
Lab 9,385 (0.95%); BNP 3,729 (0.38%); NLP 2,087 (0.21%); Lower Tax 1,632
(0.17%).

South East (Bracknell Forest; Brighton & Hove; Buckinghamshire; East
Sussex;Hampshire; Isle of Wight; Kent; Medway; Milton Keynes; Oxfordshire;
Portsmouth;Reading; Slough; Southampton; Surrey; West Berkshire; West Sussex;
Windsor & Maidenhead; Wokingham)

Additional members elected: Daniel Hannan (C); Nirj Deva (C); James Elles (C);
Richard Ashworth (C); Peter Skinner (Lab); Chris Huhne (LD); Emma Nicholson
(LD); Caroline Lucas (Green); Nigel Farage (UKIP); Ashley Mote (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 776,370 (35.17%)

UKIP 431,111 (19.53%)

LD 338,342 (15.33%)

Lab 301,398 (13.65%)

Green 173,351 (7.85%)

BNP 64,877 (2.94%)

Senior 42,861 (1.94%)

EDP 29,126 (1.32%)

Respect 13,426 (0.61%)

Peace 12,572 (0.57%)

CPA 11,733 (0.53%)

Prolife 6,579 (0.30%)

Ind 5,671 (0.26%)

Electorate 6,048,349. Turnout 36.50%.

1999: C maj 369,785 (24.82%); Turnout 1,490,069 (24.95%); C 661,931 (44.42%);
Lab 292,146 (19.61%); LD 228,136 (15.31%); UKIP 144,514 (9.70%); Green 110,571
(7.42%); Pro Euro C 27,305 (1.83%); BNP 12,161 (0.82%); Soc Lab 7,281 (0.49%);
NLP 2,767 (0.19%); Ind Stable 1,857 (0.12%); Ind Profit 1,400 (0.09%).

South West (Bath & North East Somerset; Bournemouth; Bristol; Cornwall; Devon;
Dorset;Gloucestershire; North Somerset; Plymouth; Poole; Scilly Isles; Somerset;
South Gloucestershire; Swindon; Torbay; Wiltshire)

Additional members elected: Neil Parish (C); Caroline Jackson (C); Giles
Chichester (C); Glyn Ford (Lab); Graham Watson (LD); Graham Booth (UKIP); Roger
Knapman (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 457,371 (31.58%)

UKIP 326,784 (22.56%)

LD 265,619 (18.34%)

Lab 209,908 (14.49%)

Green 103,821 (7.17%)

BNP 43,653 (3.01%)

Countryside 30,824 (2.13%)

Respect 10,437 (0.72%)

Electorate 3,852,708. Turnout 37.59%.

1999: C maj 246,283 (23.63%); Turnout 1,042,387 (27.81%); C 434,645 (41.70%);
Lab 188,362 (18.07%); LD 171,498 (16.45%); UKIP 111,012 (10.65%); Green 86,630
(8.31%); Lib 21,645 (2.08%); Pro Euro C 11,134 (1.07%); BNP 9,752 (0.94%); Soc
Lab 5,741 (0.55%); NLP 1,968 (0.19%).

Wales

Additional members elected: Jonathan Evans (C); Glenys Kinnock (Lab); Eluned
Morgan (Lab); Jill Evans (PC).

Party Share:

Lab 297,810 (32.45%)

C 177,771 (19.37%)

PC 159,888 (17.42%)

UKIP 96,677 (10.53%)

LD 96,116 (10.47%)

Green 32,761 (3.57%)

BNP 27,135 (2.96%)

Forward 17,280 (1.88%)

CDP 6,821 (0.74%)

Respect 5,427 (0.59%)

Electorate 2,218,649. Turnout 41.36%.

1999: Lab maj 14,455 (2.31%); Turnout 626,425 (28.33%); Lab 199,690 (31.88%); PC
185,235 (29.57%); C 142,631 (22.77%); LD 51,283 (8.19%); UKIP 19,702 (3.15%);
Green 16,146 (2.58%); Pro Euro C 5,834 (0.93%); Soc Lab 4,283 (0.68%); NLP 1,621
(0.26%).

West Midlands (Herefordshire; Shropshire; Staffordshire; Stoke-on-Trent; Telford
&Wrekin; Warwickshire; West Midlands Metropolitan County; Worcestershire)

Additional members elected: Philip Bushill-Matthews (C); Philip Bradbourn (C);
Malcolm Harbour (C); Michael Cashman (Lab); Neena Gill (Lab); Liz Lynne (LD);
Mike Nattrass (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 392,937 (27.34%)

Lab 336,613 (23.42%)

UKIP 251,366 (17.49%)

LD 197,479 (13.74%)

BNP 107,794 (7.50%)

Green 73,991 (5.15%)

Respect 34,704 (2.41%)

Pensioners 33,501 (2.33%)

CG 8,650 (0.60%)

Electorate 3,996,130. Turnout 35.96%.

1999: C maj 84,048 (9.90%); Turnout 848,684 (21.21%); C 321,719 (37.91%); Lab
237,671 (28.00%); LD 95,769 (11.28%); UKIP 49,621 (5.85%); Green 49,440 (5.83%);
MEP Ind 36,849 (4.34%); Lib 14,954 (1.76%); BNP 14,344 (1.69%); Pro Euro C
11,144 (1.31%); Soc All 7,203 (0.85%); Soc Lab 5,257 (0.62%); EFP 3,066 (0.36%);
NLP 1,647 (0.19%).

Yorkshire & The Humber (East Riding of Yorkshire; Kingston-upon-Hull; North East
Lincolnshire; North Lincs; North Yorks; South Yorks; West Yorks; York)

Additional members elected: Timothy Kirkhope (C); Edward McMillan-Scott (C);
Linda McAvan (Lab); Richard Corbett (Lab); Diana Wallis (LD); Godfrey Bloom (
UKIP).

Party Share:

Lab 413,213 (26.27%)

C 387,369 (24.62%)

LD 244,607 (15.55%)

UKIP 228,666 (14.54%)

BNP 126,538 (8.04%)

Green 90,337 (5.74%)

Respect 29,865 (1.90%)

EDP 24,068 (1.53%)

ND 14,762 (0.94%)

AGS 13,776 (0.88%)

Electorate 3,694,415. Turnout 42.58%.

1999: C maj 39,629 (5.33%); Turnout 744,067 (19.75%); C 272,653 (36.64%); Lab
233,024 (31.32%); LD 107,168 (14.40%); UKIP 52,824 (7.10%); Green 42,604
(5.73%); Alt Lab 9,554 (1.28%); BNP 8,911 (1.20%); Pro Euro C 8,075 (1.09%); Soc
Lab 7,650 (1.03%); NLP 1,604 (0.22%).

Northern Ireland (First Count)

Jim Allister (DUP) 175,761

Ms Bairbre de Brun (SF) 144,541 *Jim Nicholson (UUP) 91,164

Martin Morgan (SDLP) 87,559

John Gilliland (Ind) 36,270

Eamonn McCann (Soc Env) 9,172

Lindsay Whitcroft (Green) 4,810

Elected: Jim Allister, Ms Bairbre de Brun

Party share of poll:

DUP 175,761 (32.00%)

SF 144,541 (26.31%)

UUP 91,164 (16.60%)

SDLP 87,559 (15.94%)

Ind 36,270 (6.60%)

Soc Env 9,172 (1.67%)

Green 4,810 (0.88%) (Second Count)

Distribution of Allister's surplus *Jim Nicholson (UUP) 124,646

Martin Morgan (SDLP) 88,010

John Gilliland (Ind) 39,390

Eamonn McCann (Soc Env) 9,268

Lindsay Whitcroft (Green) 5,134

Eliminated: John Gilliland, Eamonn McCann, Lindsay Whitcroft (Third Count)

Distribution of Gilliland's, McCann's and Whitcroft's votes *Jim Nicholson (UUP)
147,058

Martin Morgan (SDLP) 108,533

Elected: Jim Nicholson

Electorate 1,072,669; Turnout 554,744 (51.72%, -6.05%)

1999: Turnout 687,573 (57.77%)

First Count - Paisley (DUP) 192,762; Hume (SDLP) 190,731; Nicholson (UUP)
119,507; McLaughlin (SF) 117,643; Ervine (PUP) 22,494;

McCartney (UKU) 20,283; Neeson (Alliance) 14,391; Anderson (NLP) 998.

Elected: Paisley, Hume, Nicholson

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              254 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Your views interest nobody, Howard tells MPs

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 09

LENGTH: 1182 words

MICHAEL Howard delivered a stinging dressing down to his MPs last night, warning
them that he would not be bounced by the European election results into
hardening his policy of selective renegotiation on Europe.

He ordered his backbenchers to stop debating the party's European policy in
public. "I am not interested in presiding over a debating society," he told
them. "Frankly nobody is interested in hearing your views."

In what one described as an electrifying performance, Mr Howard said he had been
"horrified" to hear two Tory MPs arguing over party policy on the Today
programme on Friday when they should have been exploiting Labour's defeat in the
local elections.

Although he did not name them, his targets were the europhile Ian Taylor, and
Bill Cash, a leading Eurosceptic who has called on the leadership to respond to
its poor results in the euro-elections by campaigning for withdrawal from the
European Union.

"We need self-discipline, not self-indulgence," Mr Howard said. He had agreed to
make a last-minute appearance at a pre-arranged meeting to discuss the outcome
of the local, European and London elections amid fears of an impending outbreak
of infighting over Europe.

He said his position on Europe was well known and had been carefully developed
over a decade. He would not change it.

"Nobody is interested in the views of the Conservative Party. What counts are
the views of the people in government, and if we aren't in government we can't
get the things we want done."

The Tories will now switch their attentions to the domestic agenda, with health
and education as the dominant themes of the long run-up to next year's general
election.

Faced with a slump to 27 per cent of the vote - the party's worst results since
the First World War - the Tory leader sought to set the pace and the subject of
party debate by springing a snap reshuffle that brings a new generation into the
shadow cabinet.

He wants the newcomers to help him to draw attention away from party divisions
over Europe and shift the debate on to the priorities of switcher voters - those
considering shifting their allegiance from Labour to Conservatives.

Central Office polling found that policies on health and education rank first
and second respectively on the list of issues that switchers identify as most
likely to persuade them to change sides. The economy and tax is third, with
crime fourth. Europe is 12th.

Mr Howard was urged last week by his closest advisers, led by Lord Saatchi, to
reassign front bench portfolios to focus campaign efforts on public services and
avoid headlines about splits between Eurosceptics and Eurofanatics.

He had been minded to leave his 12-strong shadow cabinet unchanged for the
summer, but was persuaded to strike quickly as the scale of the UK Independence
Party's inroads into the Tory vote became clear.

Although nobody was sacked, yesterday's frontbench moves produced winners and
losers. The biggest change came with the demerger of health and education, which
had been brought together under Tim Yeo when Mr Howard took over the leadership
late last year.

He has spent the past seven months overhauling policy in both areas after Mr
Howard concluded that the existing promise to introduce "passports" to give
pupils and patients more choice was little understood by MPs and impossible to
explain easily to voters.

A new package of policies put together under Mr Yeo's direction has been
approved by Mr Howard, who let it be known yesterday that he was "delighted"
with the work carried out and now wanted Mr Yeo to apply his skills to transport
and the environment.

One MP said: "We've neglected transport yet it affects every family in the
country. It's a vital area for us. Tim is a problem-solver and a salesman, which
is what Michael Howard needs in that brief."

Andrew Lansley and Tim Collins, who played vital roles in their respective
health and education briefs, are promoted to the enlarged shadow cabinet and
will take charge of the twin policy launches being prepared for the end of the
month. Theresa May is moved from transport and environment and given a new post
of shadow secretary for the family. MPs noted that there is no corresponding
Cabinet minister for her to shadow.

In a move that surprised MPs, David Willetts, the work and pensions spokesman,
has lost responsibility for drafting policy and writing the manifesto, which has
been handed to David Cameron, who will report directly to Mr Howard.

The apparent snub to Mr Willetts, who 10 days ago was being talked about by Mr
Howard's advisers as a future shadow chancellor, stunned Westminster.

But it is understood that Mr Howard wanted to free Mr Willetts for a big
campaign on pensions, a vital issue for voters whose median age is 55.

Last night it appeared that Mr Howard's call to arms had had its effect, with a
consensus emerging that a revolt over Europe has been successfully headed off.

Up

David Cameron

Aged 37, MP for Witney. Golden boy of the 2001 Tory intake, regularly tipped as
a leader in waiting. An insider from the minute he entered the Commons, helped
Iain Duncan Smith prepare for Question Time then switched effortlessly to inner
circle of Michael Howard. Has the unenviable task of putting together a general
election-winning manifesto.

Tim Yeo

Aged 59, MP for South Suffolk. Former minister and unflappable leadership
contender given a leading role by Michael Howard as spokesman for health and
education. Has overseen a comprehensive policy overhaul on public services that
will decide the party's fortunes when it is unveiled in a few weeks. Rewarded
with another vital brief - transport.

Andrew Lansley

Aged 47, MP for South Cambridgeshire. Free-thinking civil servant turned MP, now
promoted to the Shadow Cabinet as health spokesman after doing the job as Tim
Yeo's deputy. He will take responsibility for unveiling and selling the
"patient's passport", which will form one of the main planks of the Tory
election campaign.

Tim Collins

Aged 40, MP for Westmorland and Lonsdale. Savvy political operator who won
praise for his handling of the education brief under Tim Yeo and must now take
charge of promoting his re-worked "pupil's passport" for increasing parental
choice when it is unveiled in a few weeks. Vital step towards preparing a
government-in-waiting.

Down

David Willetts

Aged 48, MP for Havant. Long considered one of the smartest MPs of his
generation, his mastery of social security detail has made him unmoveable as the
party's work and pensions spokesman. Michael Howard gave him additional
responsibility for writing the manifesto seven months ago, but now wants him to
take the lead on a major pensions campaign.

Theresa May

Aged 47, MP for Maidenhead. Unsackable Shadow Cabinet survivor shunted sideways
into non-job after lacklustre performance in transport and environment brief.
Popular with the party rank-and-file - but not with colleagues - she won
headlines for her taste in kitten heels. As spokesman for the family, she may
find it difficult to raise her profile.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              255 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Old dog learns a new trick for Blair's vision of Iraq

BYLINE: by Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 09

LENGTH: 721 words

David Blunkett's guide dog Sadie missed yesterday's statement by Tony Blair to
the House of Commons about the G8 Summit. Her harness was present, but she
herself had apparently found something better to do than listen to the Prime
Minister deliver yet another of his uplifting lectures about democracy in the
Middle East.

Maybe Mr Blunkett told Sadie afterwards what she had missed, and maybe she
sighed and thought what an incurably frivolous creature she is, to pass up a
chance to hear her party leader talk on such a noble subject as democracy.

Yet Sadie, besides being a most beautiful and considerate black dog, must have
had to listen to a considerable number of speeches in her time, and one cannot
help suspecting that she has developed an acute nose for politics.

For there were only a few ministers in the House to hear Mr Blair deliver his
statement, and by the time he finished taking questions about it virtually all
of them had left. They are busy men and women, of course, but it was almost as
if the real action was taking place elsewhere, and no credit now attaches to
being seen sitting loyally at the Prime Minister's side while he sketches his
modest plans to seize the moral leadership of the planet.

We do not say that Sadie is looking already to the post-Blair era, for she at
least is of an unimpeachably loyal disposition, which is more than can be said
of some of the other dogs in Mr Blair's party. We guess however that Sadie
reckons Mr Blair chose the wrong aspect of his subject to pull in the punters.

She would happily have listened to the Prime Minister talking about democracy in
Britain, or even in Europe, in the light of the elections held last Thursday,
but was not prepared to take another homily from him about his plans for Iraq.

Mr Blair's statement certainly acquires greater interest if one applies what he
said about democracy in Iraq to Great Britain. The Prime Minister spoke of the
importance of transferring authority at the end of the month to a "fully
sovereign" government. This belief in national sovereignty lies at the heart of
the appeal of the United Kingdom Independence Party, and could surely form the
basis of an alliance between Mr Blair and Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former Labour
MP who is UKIP's most prominent figure.

Not that Mr Blair limits his vision of democracy and prosperity to the Middle
East. He spoke also about Africa, where he warned that it is going to be very
difficult to do anything about the unfolding disaster in Zimbabwe, but had
heartening news about another part of that troubled continent: "In Tanzania
they've now achieved gender-parity in primary schools."

Sir Peter Tapsell (C, Louth and Horncastle) asked: "Did the Prime Minister
apologise to the other heads of government for giving them false information to
justify the original attack on Iraq?" Mr Blair replied: "No I did not."

Gordon Prentice (Lab, Pendle) asked when the Prime Minister "expects to see a
democratic Saudi Arabia". Mr Blair replied: "I don't know, is the answer to
that."

A discussion ensued about the "road map" for peace between Israel and the
Palestinians. Jenny Tonge (Lib Dem, Richmond Park) said a dog (surely not
Sadie?) appeared to have eaten part of it, but Mr Blair stood up for the road
map: "It's not that it's dog-eared in the sense that it's been pored [or did he
mean pawed?] over too much. It's been pored [or pawed] over too little."

Dennis Skinner (Lab, Bolsover) said the road map that interested him was the
European constitution, which our poor, globe-trotting Prime Minister will be off
at the end of the week to Brussels to discuss. Mr Skinner had some advice for Mr
Blair about the constitution: "Tell them to bury it in the long grass. Chuck it
in the political dustbin. It's causing embarrassment."

Once again we had been privileged to glimpse the essential harmony between the
Labour Party and UKIP, but once again Mr Blair failed to pick up the ball and
run with it. He merely said to Mr Skinner, a former miner who has been an MP for
a lot longer than he has: "Well, I'll certainly bear that in mind."

Timing is everything in politics, so Mr Blair perhaps feels it would be
premature to announce an alliance with UKIP just now, but it would surely be one
way to transform the Labour Party's electoral prospects.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              256 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Unlikely bedfellows giving Brussels a nightmare

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 892 words

BEYOND a shared aversion to Brussels, the awkward squad of communists,
ultra-Catholic, free-market "Thatcherites", whistleblowers, far-Right
nationalists, and self-styled Eurosceptics elected to the European Parliament
over the weekend have almost nothing in common.

With more than 100 of the 732 seats together, they could hold the balance of
power over the EU's legislative machine - now responsible for more than half of
all national law.

But they cannot by their nature be "together", reflecting as they do the
turbulent variety of an expanded Europe of 25 states speaking 20 official
languages in a free-thinking internet age where the stifling monopoly of the
post-war party system is breaking down.

If this flowering of diversity is almost anarchic, it nevertheless offers more
of an opposition voice than any yet seen in Europe's capital, where dissent from
the basic purposes of the "European Project" is treated as vaguely deviant. By
force of numbers it is setting off alarm bells.

Privately, one Commission official said there was "deep alarm" that Britain -
the EU's leading military power and second economy - had picked Eurosceptics for
almost half its 78 seats.

Not only is the UK Independence Party bursting on the scene with 12 MEPs, but
the Tory group of 27 (down from 36) is now a changed animal following the purge
of pro-Europeans. The hardliners now have the whip hand.

The days when British Eurosceptics could be treated as a minor nuisance are
past. With even the Dutch government calling for "repatriation" of core powers
to the member states, EU diplomats say it is the EU elite itself that has to
start to justify its assumptions.

The fragmented rebels can appear an almost comic sight. Among the far-Right -
itself a term that provokes furious objections - the Danish People's Party (one
seat) turns up its nose at Jean-Marie Le Pen's anti-Semitic National Front in
France (eight seats, up from five in 1999), a group that views the EU as an
Anglo-Saxon project run from Washington.

Neither of the two can get along with the ascendant Vlaams Blok (three seats, up
from two), Belgium's Flemish separatists, which seeks to cast itself as a
pro-American Atlanticist movement. All look askance at the Austrian Freedom
Party (one seat, down from five) of Jorg Haider, who courted Saddam Hussein in
Iraq.

And where to place the Samobroona (Self-Defence) party of Poland's
fire-breathing populist Andrzej Lepper (seven seats), a former boxer threatening
"secession" from the EU just weeks after joining unless the Polish are given
equal treatment? Or the pro-life Catholic League of Families (10 seats), which
believes the EU establishment is infested with anti-clerical freemasons?

The UKIP has an incongruous home in the Democracies and Diversities group, led
by Jens-Peter Bonde, whose Danish June Movement was born in 1992 to protest at
the refusal in Brussels to accept the Danish people's "No" verdict on the
Maastricht Treaty.

The charismatic father of the Eurosceptics, Mr Bonde is at heart an old Leftist
who detests the nationalist Right, even if he has abjured his past in the Danish
communist party and his East German jaunts during the Cold War.

His group will include Sweden's new June List, a disaffected splinter from the
Social Democrats that came from nowhere to win three seats with more than 14 per
cent of the vote. It pledges to defend the Scandinavian way of life and the
krona.

Mr Bonde also hopes to recruit two new kids on the block: the anti-fraud parties
of Paul van Buitenen, the Dutch whistleblower, and Austria's Hans-Peter Martin,
a Socialist MEP drummed out of the party for exposing endemic expense fiddling
by his colleagues. Each brings two MEPs.

Mr van Buitenen is a pro-European who pleads for a fully-fledged federal
parliament with the power to tame the EU's secretive and double-headed
executive, the Commission and Council.

It will take some persuasion to reconcile him to the UKIP's Robert Kilroy-Silk,
who said yesterday that his mission was to "wreck" the European Parliament.

Happier bedfellows, perhaps, will be the free-market Atlanticists - or
"Thatcherites" - newly invigorated by the arrival of 14 MEPs from the Czech
Civic Democratic Party, led by Czech president Vaclav Klaus, although its
critics argue that its pro-American and pro-free-market credentials are
extremely questionable. Mr Klaus is decidedly anti-EU though, fearing that his
country will be just a "tiny particle" within the EU, "ceasing to exist as as a
sovereign entity".

More convincingly free-market is Poland's Law and Justice Party (seven seats), a
clutch of pro-capitalist parties across the Baltics, the Portuguese Partido
Popular (nine seats) and, at least on economic issues, the Swedish Moderates
(four) and Finnish Coalition conservatives (four).

They are all natural friends for the Tories, who are in the main conservative
bloc, the European People's Party. Together, they could act as a counter-weight
to Germany's Christian Democrats, who are themselves starting to doubt the
wisdom of ever closer EU integration and to hanker for a Frau Thatcher to shake
up their own moribund economy.

The French "Souverainistes" led by Philippe de Villiers, a very Catholic count
from the Vendee, won three seats. But the French Eurosceptics remain the dog
that has yet to really bark.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              257 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Growing band needs extra tables at The Pig's Head European poll success will
give UKIP much food for thought, writes Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

BYLINE: by Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 667 words

ONCE a month for the last five years, the UK Independence Party's tiny band of
Euro-MPs has met for dinner at La Tete du Lard - The Pig's Head - a homely
little restaurant with timbered ceilings in Medieval Strasbourg.

The hilarious "Anglais"are greeted with hugs and kisses on both cheeks, and "tu
vas bien?" in the intimate French reserved for dear friends and lost family.
Jugs of Alsatian pinot gris hit the table in quick succession, and meals always
end with Armagnac: tumblers of it.

"We engage in the European project: we eat calves' brains whenever we can," said
Nigel Farage, MEP, a City commodities broker, married to a German. An amateur
historian who takes groups of old soldiers to the graves and battlefields of the
First World War, he sings paeans to French gallantry - though he reserves top
praise for the British conscript army of 1918, in his view the finest-led and
most creative military machine the world has ever seen, inventing the art of
modern Blitzkrieg copied by the Nazis 20 years later.

He insists against much evidence that he is indeed a "xenophobe" - a crime under
European Union law - fitting the Oxford English Dictionary definition of a
person who is morbidly fearful of a foreign country, in this case a "superstate
called Europe". He looks forward to his arrest. At the Tete du Lard, UKIP's
three MEPs and two staff could once fit around a single small table. At next
July's session of the European Parliament in Strasbourg the 12-strong team of
Euro-MPs, led by Robert Kilroy-Silk and an army of aides, will take up the whole
restaurant. The game has suddenly become deadly serious. Where UKIP was once
proud to state its purpose in Brussels as "pure political terrorism", firing off
shotgun volleys at any target that moved in the EU system, it now carries a much
heavier responsibility.

With 12 of Britain's 78 MEPs, it will have to decide whether to dirty its hands
grappling with the nitty-gritty of legislation that affects the daily lives of
British citizens, playing the "enemy's" game by engaging in a process that it
abhors. UKIP has taken seats from diligent Tory MEPs who worked long thankless
hours in the engine rooms of the EU, nudging forward the British, free-market
cause by helping to shape laws, and frequently playing a pivotal role in an
evenly divided chamber.

Without the daily toil of these "unsung heroes" - as they were called by one
Foreign Office official - the legislation coming out of Brussels could be a
great deal worse than it is, with dire effects on British industry and commerce.

UKIP had its odd success, eliminating a legislative clause that would have ended
the Scilly Isles helicopter service, but only by enlisting allies - otherwise
known as going native in Brussels.

It voted against the British-backed Takeover Directive in 2001, aimed at
breaking down investment barriers in Germany, arguing on a point of principle
that it would lead to more EU integration. The law failed by two votes, causing
bitter disappointment for British business.

Nobody much noticed that UKIP had cast the deciding votes, arguably damaging the
interests of the country. Nobody much noticed anything UKIP did then. Next time,
it will be judged much more severely. When asked yesterday how he would approach
the European Parliament, Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "Wreck it. Expose it for the waste
and the corruption and the way it is eroding our independence and our
sovereignty. Our job is to go there and say 'Look, this is what they do, this is
how they waste your money, this is how they spend it, this is how it gets
corrupted, this is how they go on the gravy train and spend their time in
restaurants and the rest of it.' That's what we are there to do - to expose the
whole edifice."

It will not be quite so easy. Populist movements - the Pim Fortuyn List in
Holland, and Jorg Haider's Freedom Party in Austria - invariably discover that
life becomes harder once they have to account for power. Could the same fate
await UKIP?

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              258 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

New MEP for UKIP faces fraud charge

BYLINE: By Stewart Payne

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 199 words

A NEWLY elected UK Independence Party MEP is facing criminal charges relating to
an alleged housing benefit fraud.

Ashley Mote, from Knowle, Hampshire, described as an author and writer, was
elected for the South-East region following last Thursday's poll.

On Friday his case came before Chichester Crown Court where he is facing nine
charges of false accounting and one of making a false representation.

The charges have been brought by the Department of Work and Pensions. A trial
date has been provisionally set for November.

Mote confirmed that he was facing prosecution when contacted by The Daily
Telegraph yesterday and said he "vigorously" denied the allegations.

He said: "I am in dispute with my local authority, Chichester district council,
and it is alleged that I made a fraudulent claim for housing benefit. This
matter dates back many years to a time when I was in financial difficulties
after I was made redundant and was advised to claim benefit.

"My legal team and myself are confident that this matter will not come to trial
and the charges will be dropped.

"There are people who are out to discredit me and they are seeking to damage my
reputation," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              259 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Champagne (well, English sparkling) for the men about to wreck Brussels

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent and Tom Peterkin

SECTION: News Pg. 11

LENGTH: 828 words

JUDGING by his timidity with a Champagne bottle, Roger Knapman will never make a
racing driver.

He was taking part in a victory photocall, but at first he seemed reluctant to
spill a drop, and even after a spot of coaxing he was not exactly showering the
crowd with fizz.

As a Tory whip in the dying days of John Major's administration and later the
leader of a party dismissed as "cranks and gadflies", Mr Knapman had probably
never had much to celebrate.

But yesterday, as the UK Independence Party pushed the Liberal Democrats into
fourth place in the European elections, Mr Knapman woke to find himself at the
head of the fastest-growing force in British politics.

UKIP now has 12 MEPs and, after performing for the cameras on College Green,
outside the House of Commons, 11 of them followed Mr Knapman into a small
conference room in a nearby office block for a press conference devoted to
unbridled triumphalism.

Most parties have leaders. UKIP has a triumvirate: the dull-but-earnest Mr
Knapman, the official leader; Nigel Farage, the smooth-talking front man who
comes over as the brains behind the operation; and, of course, Robert
Kilroy-Silk, UKIP's resident celebrity.

The three, who are all now MEPs, sat together at a small table while the other
eight winning candidates lined up behind them, smug with the knowledge that they
had just pulled off a mighty political upset.

It was not unlike the atmosphere at the famous press conference when John
Redwood announced he was challenging John Major for the Tory leadership in 1995,
flanked by Tony Marlow in a striped blazer and Teresa Gorman wearing lime green.
Except that Mr Redwood had some women amongst his Eurosceptic die-hards; the
UKIP gang were all male, white and well into middle age.

Mr Farage opened the meeting in his capacity as chairman, Mr Knapman made the
main speech, but as usual it was "Kilroy" who hogged the limelight as he set out
UKIP's mission in rabble-rousing language.

Asked what he was going to do when he went to the European Parliament as an MEP,
he replied: "Wreck it."

As the laughter died down, he went on: "Expose it for the waste, the corruption
and the way it is eroding our independence and our sovereignty.

UKIP seems to have mixed feelings about continental cuisine. Mr Knapman's bottle
of Champagne was, in fact, English sparkling wine (from New Hall Vineyards, in
Essex) and Mr Kilroy-Silk did not say whether, if dining in Brussels restaurants
was so bad, he would be taking a packed lunch.

In fact, he seemed to be unsure quite how often he would be going there at all.

At one point he said: "I don't want to go to Brussels. I don't want to be there.
I don't want to be bogged down in the committees and all the rest of it."

But then he conceded that he would attend when it was "important" to represent
the interests of his constituents.

Mr Farage explained that UKIP MEPs would be attending plenary meetings so that
they could qualify for full secretarial allowances and that they would be using
the money to turn UKIP into a "genuine mass movement".

UKIP has probably never hosted such a well-attended press conference and the
panel was bubbling with ambition. Mr Farage said he wanted to "obstruct and
delay" new Brussels legislation, while Mr Kilroy-Silk said the party had to
convince more voters they were "safe" in its hands.

Mr Redwood's 1995 press conference has gone down in Westminster folklore as a
disaster. Although he appeared confident at the time, Tories took one look at
his supporters and decided they were the "barmy army from ward eight at
Broadmoor".

Yesterday UKIP insisted that the party was winning the argument about Britain's
ongoing membership of the European Union.

But the triumvirate was less convincing when asked why they were adopting
tactics that could increase the chances of Labour (who are pro-European) beating
the Conservatives (who are Eurosceptic) at the general election.

"Kilroy" and his colleagues just ducked the question. So it was a shame Mr
Redwood was not there to explain the eventual consequences of his own
Eurosceptic power grab of nine years ago.

Despite the triumphalism at Westminster, the UKIP bandwagon came to a halt at
the border with Scotland, where the party failed to make any tangible inroads.
UKIP took only 6.7 per cent of the vote north of the border. It failed to win
any of Scotland's seven seats and even finished behind the Green Party.

Last week, a YouGov poll for The Daily Telegraph predicted that UKIP would take
11 per cent of the Scottish vote taking at least one of the Conservative's two
seats in the European Parliament.

But the UKIP challenge failed to make enough of an impact to threaten the
Conservatives, who retained both their European seats.

Struan Stevenson, the Conservatives' senior Scottish candidate, said he was
delighted that his party had held both its seats in Scotland even though the
total available had fallen from eight to seven.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              260 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Kilroy-Silk is back where he longs to be UKIP's figurehead MEP will need a
longer attention span than daytime TV requires, says George Jones

BYLINE: by George Jones

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1095 words

Robert Kilroy-Silk was basking in the glare of publicity yesterday. From sacked
television presenter to political giant-killer in six months was an impressive
achievement in anybody's books.

Not since David Owen and the other members of the SDP's "Gang of Four" nearly
broke the mould of British politics in the early 1980s has a minor party caused
such an upset to the political establishment.

To come from a virtual standing start in a four-week campaign to take third
place in a national poll - pushing the Liberal Democrats into fourth place - has
sent shockwaves reverberating around Westminster.

Without Kilroy-Silk, it is doubtful that UKIP would have achieved such
prominence or done so well. In an age of personality politics, the voters
treated the euro poll rather like the political equivalent of the Big Brother
house.

With his permatan good looks, and profile as a television personality, it was
probably a toss-up for Kilroy-Silk whether to join a fellow former politician,
Edwina Currie, and the celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay on Hell's Kitchen or to
stand for the European Parliament.

Unlike Edwina, who seems prepared to undergo any humiliation in order to acquire

C-list celebrity status, Kilroy-Silk has never quite lost the political bug.

He has remained on the fringe of politics, always keeping in touch with
politicians and journalists, fascinated by snippets of gossip from the corridors
of power.

He regarded his television programme as a form of people's parliament. An
estimated 250,000 people and politicians passed through his television studios
as he debated the issues of the day - some serious, others more trivial, such as
"My partner is a porn star".

As a Labour MP in the early 1970s and early 1980s, he was young, charismatic,
articulate and intensely ambitious - rather like Tony Blair nearly a decade
later. He demonstrated a social conscience by campaigning for prison reform, one
of the most neglected and unpopular areas of public policy. Aspiring politicians
normally seek to make their mark by calling for criminals to be locked up and
the key thrown away - not highlighting the grim, unsanitary conditions in which
prisoners were held in some of Britain's Victorian jails.

Kilroy-Silk can also claim consistency on Europe, with a lifelong opposition to
the EU. In the 1975 referendum, he campaigned for a No vote alongside leading
Labour figures, including Jack Straw and Robin Cook - who are now fully
signed-up Euro-enthusiasts - as well as Neil Kinnock, who took Brussels'
shilling as one of Britain's European Commissioners.

Yet he did not fulfil the early promise as a politician. In 1986, the lure of
the glamorous, well-paid world of television proved more attractive than the
hard slog of a politician facing what looked then like an eternity in
opposition. One friend yesterday expressed surprise at his return to politics.
Even before he entered Parliament, Kilroy-Silk had "unashamedly always said he
wanted to be rich and famous".

Other former colleagues, however, still cannot forgive him for abandoning his
Merseyside seat of Knowsley North at the height of Labour's bitter internal
battle with the Militant Tendency. When Kilroy-Silk was targeted by the
Trotskyist entryist group, the Labour leadership mounted a strong campaign on
his behalf. Although it appeared to have beaten off the threat, Kilroy-Silk
repaid his colleagues by jumping ship to present his own television programme.

Labour was left fighting a difficult by-election, but Kilroy-Silk still talks
bitterly of his treatment at the hands of Militant. Anyone who was around in
politics 20 years ago will still recall with horror the sheer hatred and
nastiness of the extreme Left of Labour.

At the time it was seen as a risky move. The worlds of the media and politics
were not so intertwined as they are now, with senior politicians regularly
preferring to abandon a largely deserted and downgraded Commons chamber to front
television shows.

His move certainly turned out to be wise financially. Asked whether he intended
to represent his East Midlands constituents in the European Parliament, he
professed to be so well off from his television career that he did not know or
care what he would be paid as one of the United Kingdom's 78 MEPs ( pounds
57,485 plus expenses, which can run into tens of thousands of pounds if you play
the system).

Kilroy-Silk appeared somewhat confused yesterday about what to do next, apart
from delivering ever more impressive sound bites about dismantling the EU "in a
civilised and amicable way" (it won't be as easy as that).

One minute he claimed it would be just as important for him to be in "Liverpool
or Leeds", putting the case for withdrawal from the EU, as to be in Brussels.
But in the next breath, he declared his objectives were to "wreck" the
Parliament and expose the "waste and corruption" that went on there.

Despite Kilroy-Silk's profile and media awareness, the 12 UKIP MEPs risk being
swamped - or worse ignored - in the European Parliament. One of the reasons why
many people voted for his party, even though polls suggest they don't actually
want to withdraw from the EU, is that they do not care about the European
Parliament or even know who their European MP is. With MEPS from 25 countries,
it will be even more a modern Tower of Babel. Debates are not reported in the
Britsh media and it is largely ignored by the British political establishment.

The Tories were right. UKIP is a collection of "cranks and political gadflies",
prone to squabble among themselves and resentful of Kilroy-Silk's prominence.
But the major parties will be making a big mistake if they seek to dismiss
UKIP's success as a flash in the pan or a simple mid-term protest vote.

He appears to have found a way of giving a popular face to a latent streak of
Euro-scepticism among the British voters. UKIP now has councillors, members of
the London Assembly and 12 members of the European Parliament. Westminster is
the party's next objective.

He now has to demonstrate that being the figurehead of UKIP is a serious
commitment, not just a passing whim for a television presenter who suddenly
found himself at a loose end after being sacked by the BBC in January for
describing Arabs as "limb amputators".

In his former television talk show, he could solve the problems of the world in
an hour. He will need a longer attention span if he is to resolve Britain's
troubled relations with Europe - an issue that has wrecked the careers of most
politicians who have touched it.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              261 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

My husband txt-msged the boy: still no answer

BYLINE: by Vicki Woods

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 22

LENGTH: 623 words

Sunday dawned cloudless and glorious in my small corner of expectant
Eng-er-land. Perfect for the church fete. "Don't forget you'll need a hat," said
my neighbour the headhunter's wife, "because the White Elephant stall's got no
shade at all and it's going to be absolutely boiling by 2pm. I'm hoping we can
get everything unloaded by noon, and then grab a quick lunch before the
onslaught."

I said we were lucky the match wasn't scheduled till the evening, weren't we?
"Yes! There'll be plenty of men and boys around to unload the trailer."

Everything in England looks more optimistic when it's saturated with the golden
light of summer, doesn't it? Even the massed St George's flags around the
village pub look slightly more charming (and slightly less BNP) than they do
under grey skies and whipping rain. The men and boys were more than usually
helpful about lugging all the cardboard boxes full of old china off the trailer,
and the whole fete went brilliantly well, if hotly.

I didn't hear our local MP (Sir George Young)'s opening speech, but he drifted
over later to wish us well with our white elephants and to say no, no - he
wasn't at all worried about UKIP.

Later, I was just planting out my pansies (half-price from the flower-stall)
when my neighbour the headhunter's wife rang to say we'd done "even better than
last year, though I must say I was amazed you got rid of that hideous old
go-kart". (To a small boy, who beat me down to four quid from a tenner. I'd have
sold it for 50p if he'd kept on bargaining, but he didn't.)

"Talk to you after the match," she said. Alas, the heat, the Pimm's and the
sudden bout of gardening meant I dozed off until the 85th minute, thus helpfully
missing the boring bits. My husband had the phone in his (shaking) hand, ready
to txt-msg the boy (in Iraq) with the final score. Should have been a perfect
end to a perfect English day, eh?

Alas. In the 93rd minute, my neighbour the headhunter rang up from Amsterdam
("business meeting") to remind us we now owed him a fiver. "You said they'd get
a score-draw." Yes, yes, yes. We did. And if only they had. It was a very long
txt-msg my husband sent the boy, in three sections. We haven't had one back yet.

One thing that struck me about Ronald Reagan's rather glorious funeral last week
was the curiously American pallbearing procedure. When eight military
pallbearers get hold of a coffin, you expect them to hoist it up to
shoulder-height, don't you? And then slow-march off, swaying slightly from side
to side. Even my old mother's coffin was hoisted up on the shoulders of Norman
the undertaker and his men for the journey in and out of the church (despite the
fact that there was snow on the ground).

Watching pallbearers swaying is always a satisfactorily affecting sight.
Especially with state funerals, where the coffins are horribly heavy. The look
of real pain on the men's faces as they clench their teeth (in dread of dropping
the thing) makes the final moments of a funeral more wrenching for the
congregation. Wrench is what you want at funerals, isn't it?

How odd then, to see Reagan's beefy pallbearers get hold of the handles at each
side, and march the coffin off at knee height, as though they were
baggage-handlers toting a trunk through an airport terminal.

I thought it must be a recent thing, this trunk-toting. Maybe the American
military had suddenly discovered health and safety issues or something?

Maybe shoulder-height pallbearing was deemed to be too dangerous for beefy
Servicemen? But it's not sudden; it's just American. I looked up pictures of
Nixon's funeral, and Kennedy's, and their coffins weren't carried at
shoulder-height, either. Very curious, the American way of death.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              262 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

After Europe, it's time to face some home truths

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 23

LENGTH: 438 words

The Conservatives performed well in the local and European elections, but not
well enough, as Michael Howard tacitly acknowledged yesterday by conducting a
mini-reshuffle of his frontbench team. Some of the most robustly Euro-sceptic
Tory MPs have urged the party to respond to the UK Independence Party's surge by
adopting a harder line towards Brussels. Mr Howard was right to resist taking
this easy option, and it was shrewder still to change the subject before the
Conservatives indulged themselves in yet another internal debate about the
European Union.

It may be true that many natural Tory voters abandoned the Conservative Party
last week because they do not like the way Mr Howard has positioned the party on
Europe. But other factors closer to home contributed to the poor performance of
all three major parties. All voters will have a chance to influence Britain's
relationship with Europe because Mr Howard has succeeded in shaming Tony Blair
into calling a referendum on the European constitution. That was a considerable
political victory. For now, the priority must be getting the Conservatives in a
fit state to challenge New Labour, and that means internal reorganisation and
developing proper policies that offer an alternative to the Government's ever
higher public spending and its inefficient delivery of public services.

There were some good arguments last November in favour of halving the size of
the shadow cabinet to just 12, but it turned out that key spokesmen were
overstretched. It is obvious that the Conservatives have not persuaded voters
that they have better policies on health, education and transport. Theresa May
failed most conspicuously at Transport, even though she was shooting at an open
goal, given New Labour's feeble record there. Tim Yeo might be regarded as
fortunate to survive his ill-starred tenure combining health and education to
take over the Transport portfolio, but some allowance was clearly made for his
having been overstretched by trying to do both over the past seven months.

It was wise of Mr Howard to act swiftly upon these failures, and try to put his
frontbench team in order. Mr Blair, under pressure from his own backbenchers
rattled by Labour's dismal showing last week, rarely seems to be in the country.
Just back from attending Ronald Reagan's funeral in Washington, he will be off
again at the end of the week to Brussels to decide whether to accept the EU
constitution. A prime minister has to put himself about abroad, though arguably
not as much as Mr Blair does. A leader of the opposition is wise to concentrate
on issues closer to home.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              263 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP vote shows perils of patronising the public

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 23

LENGTH: 226 words

SIR - Intellectual snobbery from all the main parties aimed at UKIP and its
supporters has been rife during the European election campaigns (report and
leading article, June 14). They have all assumed that the great unwashed are
simply not clever enough to grasp the real issues of Europe. The political elite
has forgotten that we simple-minded people usually have a simple-minded approach
to what the real issues are.

We expect fair play and common sense. We expect our taxes to be spent prudently
and sensibly and we expect honesty and integrity from our politicians. Those who
voted UKIP feel angry at the complete failure of the bureaucrats in Brussels to
stem the massive amount of fraud and corruption taking place in their
organisation. We feel angry at the plethora of rules and regulations handed down
by the EU and we seem to be the only country who abides by them and go on to
employ a small army of officials to enforce them.

These issues are as easily understood by one with a secondary modern education
as any Oxbridge graduate. We are not so dim-witted as to believe that the EU
will now collapse as a result of our vote, but we take a lot of satisfaction in
knowing that we have demonstrated our contempt for those politicians and social
commentators who insist on patronising us in this way.

Suzanne Taberner

Fleetwood, Lancs oe

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              264 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP vote shows perils of patronising the public

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 23

LENGTH: 157 words

SIR - It is interesting to speculate on whether the unlikely and unholy alliance
between the Col Blimp and Alf Garnett tendencies, from whom UKIP draws its
support, is capable of thinking through the possible consequences of achieving
its single-issue policy aim - to leave the EU.

Surely, among other things, that unhappy event could trigger the disintegration
of the United Kingdom. It is easy to imagine Scottish Nationalists seizing the
chance to bid for independence and remaining within the EU. That would give them
a chance to emulate the Celtic Tiger economy in Ireland, which is now richer per
capita than Britain, largely as a result of inward investment seeking an
English-speaking home within the euro zone - investment that would otherwise
surely have come here.

It seems just possible that the Little Englanders will get exactly what they
deserve - a marginalised and diminished England.

Peter Kinnaird

Dormston, Worcs

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              265 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 15, 2004

FUTURE UNCERTAIN FOR SWINNEY AS SNP SUFFERS AT POLLS; OH DEAR, JOHN

BYLINE: By Kerry Gill Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 507 words


THE Scottish National Party and its leader John Swinney were pondering their
future last night following their humiliation at the European elections.

Far from achieving their goal of smashing Labour into second place in Scotland,
the Nationalists were hounded by the Tories who came a close third.

The result was particularly mortifying for Mr Swinney - his position already
under pressure from within the party - as he had made overtaking Labour his
campaign goal.

He tried to put a brave face on the results but, rocking backwards and forw ards
on his feet in front of the media, he cut an unconvincing figure.

"One of the things the SNP has to think long and hard about is whether the
public support political parties that present themselves as being internally
divided, " admitted Mr Swinney.

"There's a long history of political parties - the Conservative Party, the
Labour Party, the Liberal Democrats and I'm afraid to say the Scottish National
Party at times - where internal division has been to the fore.

"And it doesn't make it easy for people to vote for us if we are divided
internally." As expected, Labour clung on to two of the seven Scottish seats in
the European Parliament with the Tories and SNP keeping two each and the Liberal
Democrats holding on to their single seat.

Only 894 votes stopped Labour from achieving their third seat.

Labour's lead candidate David Martin said he was "delighted" by the result. "The
voters in Scotland clearly decided to give Labour a shake rather than a kick,
but we will learn the lessons of this campaign, " he said.

He added: "The public also showed understanding that difficult decisions have to
be made in government and, even where people disagreed with some of our
decisions, they were ready to acknowledge that the Government was prepared to
take hard decisions when appropriate."

The UK Independence Party (Ukip) did not fare nearly so well in Scotland as
south of the Border, although they won just slightly fewer votes than the
Greens. The Tories came a respectable third, comfortably ahead of the Liberal
Democrats and would have fared even better, perhaps beating the SNP, if they had
not lost votes to the Ukip.

Scottish Tory leader David McLetchie said: "I am delighted with our result in
Scotland - winning two seats out of seven, which is an improvement on two out of
eight. We have improved our share of the vote on the Scottish Parliament
election. We are now breathing down the neck of the SNP - roll on the general
election."

Liberal Democrat leader Jim Wallace said: "This is an excellent result for us.
The Scottish Liberal Democrats have increased their share of the vote."

It was a disappointing night for the SSP, who were beaten into sixth place
behind the Ukip. Leader Tommy Sheridan said: "It represents progress for the SSP
but this may have been an election too far at this stage."

One surprise was the turnout, close to 31 per cent and well above predictions
that it was going to be a miserable 20 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              266 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 15, 2004

KILROY 'SETS SIGHTS ON WESTMINSTER '

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 283 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk may follow his Euro election triumph by standing for
Westminster in a bid to give Tony Blair another bloody nose.

Speculation is growing that the leading UK Independence Party campaigner, now an
East Midlands MEP, is ready to fight the forthcoming Birmingham Hodge Hill
by-election. Yesterday, as the hardline eurosceptics celebrated their historic
third-place finish and vowed to wreck the European Parliament, Ukip insiders
said Mr Kilroy-Silk, who went to school in the area, is considering putting
himself forward.

Mr Kilroy-Silk failed to rule out the move as he toasted his party's election
success with English sparkling wine. Ukip's stunning Euro gains have put Tony
Blair and Michael Howard under severe pressure.

Ukip quadrupled its tally of MEPs to 12 and won 17 per cent of the national
vote. Tory support crumbled to 27 per cent, while Labour's 22 per cent of the
vote was its lowest in any national elections since 1918.

Any decision by Sunday Express columnist Mr Kilroy-Silk to stand in Hodge Hill -
where sitting Labour MP Terry Davis is expected to resign to take a job at the
Council of Europe - would send further jitters through the Labour high command
as it tries to recover from the shock of taking only 17 Euro seats.

Asked what he hoped to do in the European Parliament, Mr Kilroy-Silk said:
"Wreck it. Expose it for the corruption and the way it is eroding our
independence and our sovereignty.

"Our job is to go there and say, 'Look, this is what they do, this is how they
waste your money, this is how they spend it, this is how it gets corrupted'." Mr
Kilroy-Silk said he would attend the parliament only when necessary.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              267 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 15, 2004

KILROY IS 'SETTING HIS SIGHTS' NOW ON WESTMINSTER SEAT

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 471 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk may follow his Euro election triumph by standing for
Westminster in a bid to give Tony Blair another bloody nose.

Speculation is growing that the leading UK Independence Party campaigner, now an
East Midlands MEP, is ready to fight the forthcoming Birmingham Hodge Hill
by-election.

Yesterday, as hardline eurosceptics celebrated their historic third-place finish
and vowed to wreck the European Parliament, Ukip insiders said Mr KilroySilk,
who went to school in the area, is considering putting himself forward.

Mr Kilroy-Silk failed to rule out the move as he toasted his party's election
success with English sparkling wine.

Ukip's huge Euro gains have put Tony Blair and Michael Howard under severe
pressure. Ukip quadrupled its tally of MEPs to 12 and won 16 per cent of the
national vote. Tory support crumbled to 27 per cent, while Labour's 23 per cent
of the vote was its lowest in any national elections since 1918.

Any decision by Sunday Express columnist Mr Kilroy-Silk to stand in Hodge Hill -
where sitting Labour MP Terry Davis is expected to resign to take a job at the
Council of Europe - would send further jitters through the Labour high command
as it tries to recover from the shock of taking only 19 Euro seats.

Asked what he hoped to do in the European Parliament, Mr Kilroy-Silk said:

"Wreck it. Expose it for the waste and the corruption and the way it is eroding
our independence and our sovereignty.

"Our job is to go there and say, 'Look, this is what they do, this is how they
waste your money, this is how they spend it, this is how it gets corrupted'.
That's what we are there to do - expose the whole edifice."

Mr Kilroy-Silk said he would attend the parliament only when necessary.

Mr Blair tried to ward off speculation about his future last night by making a
fightback speech to Labour MPs.

The Prime Minister, who is being personally blamed for Labour's drubbing in the
local and Euro elections, promised to focus on domestic issues such as schools
and hospitals - but has not apologised for the war in Iraq.

He will be under further pressure later this week when he flies to Brussels to
thrash out the final details of the controversial European Constitution.

Mr Kilroy-Silk warned: "Tony Blair has had seven years to persuade people about
his policy of being at the heart of Europe and he has clearly failed. Twenty-six
per cent of voters in my constituency have said, 'Fine, Tony, if you want to be
at the heart of Europe, you go there, but we ain't going to be there with you'."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw insisted the Government could still win a
referendum on the proposed EU constitution, while Health Secretary John Reid
said the election results were "disappointing" for Labour but "disastrous" for
the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              268 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 15, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; NATIONALISTS FAILING TO PROVIDE PROPER OPPOSITION TO LABOUR

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 340 words


THERE was tangible relief among the major parties in Scotland yesterday that the
European elections had come and gone and none had suffered too badly. Labour,
the Scottish National Party and the Tories each have two seats and the Liberal
Democrats one. So, considering that Scotland's eight seats were reduced to
seven, not much difference there from 1999.

The Nationalists, however, did fail utterly in their goal of pushing Labour into
second place and, indeed, were lucky to have held off a strong challenge from
the Tories. The latter would have done even better had it not been for the
presence of the UK Independence Party.

It will be interesting to see if those who voted Ukip last Thursday will return
to the Conservatives at the next general election. They most likely will do so.

The position of the Nationalists is dire.

As the official Opposition they might have been expected to give Labour a hard
kicking, particularly in the wake of the Iraq war. Mr Swinney's stand on Iraq
has been unequivocal, but it did the SNP no obvious good in the election. His
future as the party's leader must be more in doubt than ever. If his SNP cannot
embarrass Labour in the present climate what future does the party have, except
to remain in eternal Opposition? Even then, the Tories are now mounting a
serious challenge.

Meanwhile, the Scottish Socialists' performance was nowhere near what they had
hoped. Their leader, Tommy Sheridan, admitted that the European elections might
have been "an election too far at this stage". On reflection, the Socialists'
natural supporters are probably not much interested in Europe.

Although the Ukip did reasonably, it was nothing like the upset delivered in
England. Nevertheless, the Ukip did take nearly seven per cent of the Scottish
vote - almost certainly most of them off the Tories. If these can be wooed back
- and that's largely up to leader Michael Howard - McLetchie and his team will
be in a formidable position to become the next official Opposition at Holyrood.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              269 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 15, 2004

LEADER - TORIES MUST WOO MIDDLE BRITAIN WITH CREDIBLE POLICIES; EUROPE IS NOT
THE BIG ISSUE NOW FOR HOWARD

BYLINE: PATRICK O FLYNN Political Editor

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 764 words


SO the Tories have managed to lose around a quarter of their support to the
United Kingdom Independence Party.

Their 38 per cent share of the vote in the local elections shrank to 27 per cent
in the European parliamentary elections, while Ukip surged forward dramatically.

The solution to their predicament is obvious. Michael Howard must match Ukip's
pledge to quit the European Union and the missing millions will return,
propelling him to 10 Downing Street on a tidal wave of anti-Brussels scepticism.

Right? Wrong.

To go down the path so fruitlessly pursued by William Hague and attempt to make
hardline Euro-scepticism the cornerstone of the Tory general election campaign
would be to draw the wrong lesson from this poll.

All polling research and experience of past contests indicate that Europe will
be about the ninth or tenth most salient issue at the next general election -
behind health, the economy, crime, education, immigration, taxation, trust and
transport.

These are the issues that voters are crying out for a coherent Tory message on.
Even moderate Euro-sceptics will be unimpressed if the Tories return to their
European obsession in the run-up to the next election. Were the Conservatives to
become a quit-the-EU party they would scare off middle-of-the-road voters and
plunge themselves back into a disastrous civil war with their Europhile wing.

Undoubtedly there is a growing contingent of hardline Euro-sceptics in the
country and for some Europe is the No 1 political issue. On the back of their
support Ukip may well double its share of the vote from 1.5 per cent to around
three per cent at the next general election. This will see candidates who
chalked up 500 votes last time hit 1,000 next time, which could cause the Tories
to miss out on a few of their target Labour seats.

But were Mr Howard to remorselessly go after these 1,000 obsessive
Brussels-haters in every seat it would be at the expense of alienating several
thousand potential voters in each constituency from the moderate, well-balanced
majority for whom Europe is a worry but not yet an over-arching crisis. He must
focus on this bigger prize.

Labour is there for the taking among the middle classes of Middle Britain.
Mondeo Men and Worcester Women alike showed in the local elections just how
cheesed off they are with Tony Blair but they will stick with the devil they
know if the Tories fail to offer credible policies.

There is a Tory policy vacuum on almost all major issues. The party has
concentrated almost exclusively on telling voters Labour has let them down. The
public realise that already and want to hear the alternative.

They also want to see a government-in-waiting being assembled with some big
hitters back on Mr Howard's team, showing them that Tory MPs have a serious and
renewed thirst for power. A David Davis purple patch aside, Mr Howard's Shadow
Cabinet has been a flop. It was encouraging to see him recognise that the issues
of health and education each deserve a seat at his top table in his
mini-reshuffle yesterday. His earlier decision to combine the two briefs under
Tim Yeo did not work. Putting Andrew Lansley in charge of health and Tim Collins
of education is an advance but, capable as they are, neither is a big-name in
the political firmament.

More dramatic changes are required. Ken Clarke, William Hague and Ann Widdecombe
should make themselves available for frontbench duties again.

Clarke would be a powerful shadow chancellor. Hague would be a brilliant
spokesman on rural and environmental issues while Widdecombe is still a big
hitter with whom Mr Howard should bury the hatchet.

MR HOWARD'S challenge over the coming months is to explain how the Tories would
run our main public services differently to secure improved performance and
better value for money in schools and hospitals while protecting access for the
less welloff. The Conservatives must also explain how they will rebalance the
criminal justice to protect law-abiding citizens and drastically tighten
immigration policy.

A careful sprinkling of tax cuts, targeted towards those on middle incomes,
would show that the Tories had reacquainted themselves with the real world.

If Mr Howard can keep his nerve and set out his stall then most voters will be
more than happy that a sensible, pragmatic Euro-scepticism is also part of his
ticket. And then the leader with most to fear from antiBrussels sentiment will
not be Mr Howard but Tony Blair with his grandiose dreams of putting Britain "at
the heart" of Europe.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              270 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 15, 2004

GIVE US A PROPER VOTE ON BRITAIN S EUROPEAN FUTURE

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 133 words


THE results of the European elections have highlighted a growing cross-party
distrust of the European Union and all that it stands for.

Its inflated budgets and large amounts of expenditure are among the concerns
people have over the EU.

The UK Independence Party received a large protest vote and won its seats simply
because Labour and Tony Blair chose to ignore the British public's opinion on
Europe.

Unless Mr Blair listens and allows a proper referendum on the European Union,
including the withdrawal option, he will lead us down the path towards a federal
Europe.

We will reach a point of no return which will do untold damage to our country
and our culture.

Labour seems to forget that almost every other European nation shares these
concerns.

Nick Brown, Reading

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              271 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

It will take a different kind of Blair to stay in power: The voters' message is
clear: focus on domestic issues and tell us the truth

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1189 words


Conventional logic rarely obliges in politics. It is little more than a month
since credible reports that Tony Blair would quit if he thought he had become a
liability to Labour's chances. Last week, Labour's vote plumbed the depths in
the local and European elections. A general election is apparently less than 11
months away. On the basis of last week's voting, dozens of Labour MPs face
defeat. Yet the message from Blair to his party is not that he might have become
a liability, but to hold their nerve. Remarkably, the mood among most Labour MPs
appears overwhelmingly receptive, even after their party's electoral kicking.

How can all this stack up? By any standards, last week's results were
humiliating for Labour. The party's 26% share of the poll in Thursday's local
elections was even worse than the local election results at the nadir of the
Michael Foot era. In the European elections, Labour's share slumped further
still. Here's how bad it got: in its entire history, the Labour party has never
contested a nationwide election and done as badly as it did in the European
elections of 2004.

When Labour collapsed to 28% of the vote in the 1983 general election, people
talked of the manifesto as the longest suicide note in history. Then, by a
formidable act of collective will, the party looked at itself in the mirror and
began the journey back from its near death experience. Last week, though, Labour
managed less than 23%. This time, there was no manifesto or campaign to blame,
and not even much sense yesterday that Labour might be passing through the
valley of the shadow of political death again. When only Clare Short and Peter
Kilfoyle call for a change at the top, the truth is that no one else takes much
notice.

It requires a subtle and unpartisan brain to make sense of many of the contours
of last week's elections. The figures of 26% and 23% mask a patchwork of
frequently contradictory electoral evidence. Why did Labour collapse in
Newcastle but survive in good order in Gateshead? What caused the grim Labour
result in Leeds as opposed to the resilient performance in Sheffield? The
electoral scoresheet was full of such nuances.

Let's recognise, too, that Labour's new lows occurred in the context of a wider
crisis affecting all the established UK political parties. The voters delivered
sobering messages to the Tories - the Tories' 27% share of the poll in the
Europeans is itself a new record low - and to Charles Kennedy's
win-some-lose-some Lib Dems too, as well as to the receding nationalist
challenge in Scotland and Wales. A similar pattern of anti-establishment voting
marked many of the polls in other European nations too.

And let's acknowledge that almost any over-simplification of the causes that
produce such outcomes is wrong, including the Labour party's sudden
post-election admission that it was being punished over "Iraq, Iraq, Iraq", as
one MP put it at the weekend. That would be news to those Labour MPs who found
asy lum and immigration topping the agenda on the doorstep. And it is entirely
at odds with the opinion polls, both qualitative and quantitative, in which Iraq
comes near the bottom of the list of most people's acknowledged concerns.

The truth is that if the electorate had conspired together to send a highly
dissatisfied message to Blair, it could hardly have done so more effectively
than it did on Thursday. A very large part of Labour's vote drained away in both
elections, but it drained fairly evenly in every available direction, and in
none in particular - a bit to the Tories, a bit to the Lib Dems, bits here there
and everywhere, including to the BNP and Ukip.

Crucially, though, there was no mass defection to the Tories of the kind that
might signal a big change of national mood in Michael Howard's favour. It is
more than 10 years now since the Tories reached the 40% threshold that wins
general elections, and even in highly favourable conditions they did not get
there last week either. The Tories were in fact relatively unsuccessful in
winning seats in these locals - Labour lost far fewer last week, 460, than the
800 it lost in 2003, while neither total came anywhere near the 2,000 seats from
which the Tories were evicted by Labour in 1995.

The electorate's one-night stand with Ukip in the European elections illustrates
something of the same point. In both cases, as John Prescott might put it, the
big plates have not moved. If the Tories had really been advancing towards a
general election victory, they would not have bombed in the Europeans and would
have scored far better overall in the locals, especially in the traditional
battleground of British politics in the West Midlands.

This still leaves us - and Blair - with the central challenge of interpreting
and making sense of the voters' message last week. Rather than downplaying the
outcome, as MPs seem to be doing, it seems to me they should be taken with
absolute seriousness. And in that context it would be perverse to see the
results as anything other than a vote of no confidence in the PM's way of
governing.

Thursday's YouGov/Sky TV poll casts interesting light on this. What matters to
you most about what the government does, respondents were asked. Their
priorities, in order, were: improving public services (mentioned by 46%);
governing competently (39%); cutting crime (32%); and telling the truth (31%).
Europe was mentioned by 11%. Getting Iraq right was important to a mere 5%.

This is a two-pronged message. First, voters clearly want Blair to focus far
more on domestic issues. The people's policy agenda is health, education and
crime - so why isn't his? Never mind Iraq, the voters are saying, what about us?
Why engage so much with abroad, Europe included, which events show you can't do
much about, when you should be focusing on Britain, which you can?

The second part of the message is just as important. It's about governing more
effectively and about telling the truth - to himself as well as to us.
Significantly, these are priorities not just in the political class, but also
among masses of voters. Iraq as such may be a minority preoccupation, but its
effect has been a corrosive catalyst for the decline of respect for Blair's
competence and credibility.

Here is where we get to the real disjunction between Blair and the electorate
rather than the phoney one. Blair's response to lack of popularity is always too
policy-oriented. He hopes Iraq will become a bit easier (not much evidence of
that yesterday), thus enabling him to focus the nation on domestic matters and
thus helping the voters to forget their earlier pain.

Maybe so. But the message of the voters is tougher and more intelligent than
that. It should certainly not be underestimated. Voters on Thursday said they
want not just a different focus but also a different kind of Blair. They seemed
to be giving Blair a last chance to get it. They were saying they would abandon
him, unless. . . If he fails to respond in the right way, then don't bet against
them carrying out their threat.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              272 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

Letters: Electoral divisions

BYLINE: Mike Allott

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 101 words


* Public opinion is now like a wobbling plate waiting to be respun. The success
of the Tories in the local elections gave us a clear a pro-war wobble. Ukip gave
us a pro-US wobble. The only effective counterbalance is the little-reported
domestic achievements of a New Labour government. The wobbles set in after Iraq.
But the main cause of instability has been public disaffection through apathy
and mistrust - not surprising when the Labour party began to delude itself it
could constantly rubbish its own leadership on both foreign and domestic policy.

Mike Allott

Eastleigh, Hants


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              273 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

Poll shows Ukip will split Tory vote

BYLINE: Alan Travis and Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words


The UK Independence party vote looks set to become a permanent feature of the
British political landscape but is likely to lead to a third-term Labour victory
by default, according to a Guardian/ICM poll.

The poll confirms that Ukip did the most damage to the Tory vote in the Euro
elections, though Robert Kilroy-Silk's party also took votes from Labour and the
Liberal Democrats. The data shows that 45% of Ukip's voters voted Tory in the
2001 general election, 20% were former Labour voters and 11% had supported the
Liberal Democrats.

The result comes as Tony Blair last night refused to blink in the face of
demands by triumphant leaders of Ukip that their success in the Euro elections
means he has no mandate to sign the proposed EU constitution at this week's
Brussels summit.

All the parties struggled to adjust to the new political world, in which Ukip
was confirmed with 12 seats. The new party's star MEP, Robert Kilroy-Silk,
promised to go to the Strasbourg parliament to "wreck it, expose it for the
waste and the corruption and the way it is eroding our independence and our
sovereignty".

Faced with a haemorrhage of votes to Ukip, the Tories also said they will not
change their policy, and predicted that deserters will come back when the
general election is called.

But the big parties are jittery. Both Mr Blair and Michael Howard met
backbenchers privately last night to steady nerves.

Mr Blair gave a rousing speech to a packed meeting of MPs in which he said "we
must have confidence in our arguments, not just to hold our nerve, but to
believe we will win". Doubters who fear the coming election is now at risk
stayed silent and Mr Blair refused a solitary demand that he apologise for the
Iraq war.

Mr Howard also moved quickly, to make changes to his shadow cabinet. The shadow
environment spokeswoman, Theresa May, was demoted, while David Willetts, the
work and pensions spokesman, lost his role coordinating policy to one of the
party's rising stars, David Cameron.

Today's ICM poll shows that Ukip is not just a flash in the Euro pan. While 36%
of last week's Euro voters say they would go back to the Tories, 24% say they
would stick with the anti-EU party in a general election, giving it a 4% share
of the vote. It took only 1.5% in the 2001 general election and the increase
would leave it as a minority party but with a potential to damage the two major
parties in key marginals.

The ICM poll confirms the minor parties made the biggest strides as a result of
"super Thursday" which could prove the last big electoral test before the next
general election. The Greens would also benefit with their vote boosted from
0.6% last time to 4% at the next election, the same as Ukip.

The ICM poll shows that if there was a general election tomorrow Labour would
stage a modest bounce back from its disastrous 23% last week to take 34% of the
vote.

This is the lowest Labour share of the vote since the petrol crisis four years
ago and eight points below its 2001 general election performance.

The poll shows Labour has been losing votes to the minor parties at an even
faster rate than the Tories, but they have scattered equally between the Liberal
Democrats, the Greens, Ukip and other smaller parties.

The only consolation for Mr Blair is that 12 months before the expected general
election Mr Howard is doing no better. The ICM poll puts the Tories on 31% in a
general election, three points behind Labour and facing a Ukip threat that could
end the careers of leading Con servatives in key marginals. The ICM poll
suggests that under Britain's first past the post system few seats would
actually change hands. With Labour on 34% and the Tories on 31% there would be a
swing from Labour to Conservative of only 0.5% - far short of the 10% swing they
need to take power and leaving Mr Blair with a majority of more than 110 for a
third term.

The details of the ICM poll also show what happened to the defecting voters from
the main parties in the Euro elections. Only 50% of Labour's 2001 general
election voters stuck with Mr Blair this time; 64% of Tory voters remained loyal
but 26% of them moved to Ukip; and only 49% of Lib-Dem voters turned out.

The demographic data of Ukip voters last Thursday shows them overwhelmingly to
be less affluent, older men.

* ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,009 adults aged 18 and over by telephone
between June 11-13 2004. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.

Elections 2004, pages 9-11

Martin Kettle and Frank Dobson, page 18

Leader comment, page 19

The Editor, page 20


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              274 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

Sketch: Visit from another planet brings hope for galaxy

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 579 words


Tony Blair reported to the Commons yesterday on the G8 summit in Georgia. But
first there was the mystery of David Blunkett's dog, Sadie.

Home Office questions had preceded the prime minister. When Mr Blair arrived, Mr
Blunkett was still present. So was Sadie's harness, lying on the floor. But
there was no sign of Sadie. Shortly after wards, the home secretary walked out,
but he left the harness behind.

Only one MP was near it - junior minister Caroline Flint, sitting in front of
the space where a dog ought to have been. Ms Flint is an attractive woman, with
jet black hair. Surely it can't be: she is not, by origin - Korean?

Mr Blair began his report. It was full of sententious world leader-speak. He
spoke in capital letters. He told us about the Forum For The Future (or F-OFF as
it could be known), the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, plus "a
comprehensive and detailed Plan of Support".

There was Doha, there was Kyoto, and something to do with third world debt
called the Paris Club (as opposed to the Club Med, which allows them to pay what
they owe with beads).

Mr Blair, like so many world leaders who have been around a long time, is very
much at ease here.

When you hobnob with other world leaders matters at home - elections, Ukip,
interest rates, football hooliganism - start to sound very trivial. It was the
undoing of Margaret Thatcher, stuck with world leaders while her colleagues back
in London were voting her out.

Our present prime minister is beginning to sound as if he's living in outer
space. These meetings, in this case held on a small, heavily-guarded island,
resemble those inter-galactic confederation congresses in big budget sci-fi
films, featuring weird monsters, triumphs of special effects. You imagine him
floating in on a sort of fluorescent flying saucer, wearing a cape made out of
moulded blue bakelite, and with webbed fingers, or perhaps two heads.

The task? To bring peace to the warring galaxies and to crush the empire of the
dreaded Klingons. Or Daleks.

"As leader of the planet UK I demand retention of the Roadmap in conjunction
with the Quartet!"

"Death to the Quartet!" hisses someone else. "We need to get the Doha Round
moving forward! Hisssss," he says, as he waves a light sabre at the chairman.
Some of the world leaders, the ones with scaly faces and leathery wings, sound
like Stephen Hawking. Other are more like Robin Cook. It was hardly surprising
that our most famous Vulcan, John Redwood, had a question about the EU
constitution.

Then Sir Peter Tapsell rose. As that name appears on the screen, it must be like
the moment in Star Trek when an asteroid is seen from the flight deck, heading
for the Enterprise. Sirens sound, klaxons whine, and the men and women of
Hansard race to their battle stations.

Luckily Sir Peter speaks so slowly that they have time to take all necessary
measures to save the starship. "At the G8 summit," he intoned, a little like
Darth Vader without the snuffle, "did the pwime minister (Sir Peter has a slight
speech impediment) apologise to the other heads of government for - giving them
FALSE information to JUSTIFY the Iwaq war?"

The sound of Sir Peter's voice continued to echo round the chamber as Mr Blair
leapt nimbly to his feet and said: "No, I did not." A wave of relief swept round
the crew - sorry, Labour backbenchers. Caroline Flint seemed to suppress what I
hope and pray was not a little burp.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              275 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

Howard reshuffles his team: Strategy: Move to revive party after mixed results

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt and Peter Hetherington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 649 words


Michael Howard showed his ruthless streak yesterday by demoting two members of
his shadow cabinet in an attempt to revive Tory fortunes after mixed results in
the "Super Thursday" elections.

To the surprise of many Tories, the victims included the popular David Willetts,
who was deprived of his policy coordination role, although he remains in the
shadow cabinet as the work and pensions spokesman.

Tories were less surprised by Theresa May's demotion. She loses her position as
shadow environment and transport secretary after a lacklustre performance. She
moves to the new post of shadow family secretary, which means she has no
government department to shadow.

Hours after the reshuffle, Mr Howard again stamped his authority on the party by
turning on two Tory MPs from either side of the Europe debate who had publicly
urged him to move in opposite directions on the divisive issue.

Bill Cash, the inveterate Eurosceptic, and Ian Taylor, the strong pro-European,
had acted in a "self indulgent" manner by calling on Mr Howard to endorse their
particular views of Europe as the best way of responding to the rise of Ukip.
"The Conservative party is not a debating society," Mr Howard told a meeting of
Tory MPs last night, as he pledged to stand by his "live and let live" approach
to Europe.

He told the MPs that the reshuffle allowed him to concentrate on the issue of
public services in the run-up to the election.

Centrepiece of the changes was the decision to put Tim Collins, the shadow
education secretary, and Andrew Lansley, the shadow health secretary, into the
shadow cabinet.

This had been long planned, as Mr Howard moves into the next phase of his
leadership and concentrates on outlining Tory plans rather than just attacking
Labour.

He will kick off the "positive" phase today when he outlines the "big people,
small government" philosophy underpinning his approach to public services.

Mr Lansley and Mr Collins will detail their health and schools policies over the
next three weeks.

The promotion of the pair, who played vital roles in formulating William Hague's
"core votes" strategy for the 2001 election, triggered other moves:

* Tim Yeo, who had combined the health and education jobs in the shadow cabinet
as public services spokesman, takes over from Ms May as transport and
environment spokesman. Mr Howard believes transport could be a decisive issue at
the next election.

* David Cameron, 37, who is emerging as the brightest star of the new generation
of Tory MPs elected in 2001, takes over the coordination of policy.

Mr Cameron, who writes a political diary for Guardian Unlimited, will sit
outside the shadow cabinet but he reports directly to Mr Howard.

The Labour party characterised the changes as a panic measure following
confusion about the Tories' "passport" policies for health and education.

At the Conservatives' spring conference in Harrogate, members of the shadow
cabinet came up with five differing versions of the "pupil's passport", which
would give parents a greater say over where their child is educated, within a
few hours.

The changes at Westminster came as the Tories gained a valuable prize from last
week's local elections when they assumed the chairmanship of the Local
Government Association, the representative and lobbying organisation for
councils which regularly negotiates with ministers.

Sir Sandy Bruce-Lockhart, leader of Kent county council, will take over the
chairmanship from Labour's Sir Jeremy Beecham, who has led the LGA since its
formation in 1997.

Sir Sandy has said its dealings with the government have sometimes been "too
matey", and yesterday he said that he wanted a more "frictional and gritty"
relationship with ministers.

"It is important that the LGA presents its case robustly and clearly as an equal
partner to the government. "


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              276 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

Ukip starts to plan its wrecking tactics: Parliament Party sets sights on
Eurosceptic coalition

BYLINE: Sarah Hall and Ian Black

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 792 words


The UK Independence party's 12 MEPs yesterday appeared more than a little
bewildered as they made the transition from what their leader, Roger Knapman,
called a "pressure group" to the sizeable political party that beat the Liberal
Democrats into fourth place.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the party's most high-profile candidate, was in no doubt
yesterday about what he intended to do in the European parliament. "Wreck it,"
the former chatshow host revealed at a Westminster press conference to celebrate
Ukip's change in fortunes.

"Expose it for the waste, the corruption and the way it's eroding our
independence and our sovereignty.

"That's what we are there to do - to expose the whole edifice."

But today, Nigel Farage, one of three re-elected Ukip MEPs, will visit Brussels,
the city he tries so hard to shun, to discuss forming a 60-strong bloc with
other Eurosceptic parties.

The MEP for the south-east will spend up to three days liaising with the leaders
of the Czech Republic's "Thatcherite" Civic Democratic Party, Poland's
Self-Defence party and League of Families, Denmark's June Movement and Holland's
Europa Transparant.

The move - which would probably mean Ukip rejoining the Europe of Democracies
and Diversities (EDD) group -would lead not only to a formidable Eurosceptic
force, but would be financially beneficial because parliamentary groups are
eligible for staff and funding once they gain 19 MEPs from five countries.

"The aim and ambition is to form a bloc of up to 60," Mr Farage told the
Guardian.

"We can put something together that packs a punch".

Mr Farage's Brussels trip suggests that Ukip is intent on capitalising
immediately on the high profile that won it 16.1% of the vote in the European
elections, securing it two councillors and two members on the London Assembly.

Senior figures spent two hours in a strategy meeting discussing issues such as a
broader manifesto, the need for a new party constitution and whether candidates
should stand in up to three likely by-elections.

What is clear is that Ukip's MEPs will claim expenses and allowances despite its
opposition to "waste" in Brussels.

"We will take whatever is legitimately ours and the majority will be given to
the party to expose fraud for the British people," said Mr Knapman, MEP for the
south-west.

Quite how the Ukip MEPs intend to do this when they are determined to spend as
little time as possible in Brussels is unclear.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who was giving interviews to BBC Radio 4's Today programme
shortly after 7am despite retiring from the Northampton count only five hours
earlier, insisted: "We will be there when it's necessary."

"The most important thing for Ukip is to make the case for Britain's civilised
withdrawal from Europe. If that case is at times made better in Brussels or
Strasbourg than London or Liverpool or Leeds then we will be there making the
case," he said, implying that this is unlikely and later stressing that he would
not be "bogged down" in time-consuming committees.

Whether Ukip can hope to come close to this will largely depend on its financial
health and skill in developing from the single-issue party that Mr Kilroy-Silk
yesterday insisted he was "proud" of .

Dick Morris, Bill Clinton's former pollster and the brains behind the Ukip
strategy to flesh out a clear message, will fly to London today to advise senior
figures on how to gear up for a general election.

Health, education, immigration, foreign and defence policy will be determined
for a likely spring manifesto, with Ukip's 25,000 members invited to write to
party leaders with ideas.

But money is important. After spending over £2m, largely from wealthy donors
such as the retired Kent bookmaker Alan Bown and the Yorkshire property
millionaire Paul Sykes, on the Euro elections, the coffers are empty.

"We've thrown the kitchen sink at these elections" said Mr Farage.

"Financially and physically, we're spent."

Thus, the most pressing decisions are how Ukip should prioritise resources.

The three regional referendums, which Ukip fiercely opposes, will warrant a
large no campaign, but MEPs are hesitant about whether they will contest up to
three likely by-elections, or even field a candidate for the safe Labour seat of
Leicester South.

Likewise, Ukip will go no further than pledging to field the same number of
candidates as last time (421) in a general election, anticipated for next year.

In Europe, it may insist it is part of a force to be reckoned with, but it knows
its appeal in domestic politics is limited.

"We're only a certain sized party," said Mr Knapman. "And we have to decide
what's in our best interests."

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              277 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

Allies: Ukip's European chums

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 351 words


Withdrawalists

Ukip is in a category all of its own as the only political party represented in
the European parliament that calls explicitly for withdrawal from the EU. But it
is likely to want to work with other parties in order to qualify for staff and
funding.

A recognised parliamentary group requires a minimum of 19 MEPs from five
countries. With 12 members it is a serious catch.

Eurosceptics and Europhobes

Overall estimates range from 45 to 50 MEPs. Many are likely to join the Europe
of Democracies and Diversities or EDD, present home to Ukip. Others may remain
unaffiliated.

The EDD is dominated by a Dane called Jens Peter Bonde, of the June Movement.
Although a sceptic he opposes withdrawal from the EU.

Another newcomer likely to join the EDD is the new Swedish Junilistan, which
took three of the country's MEPs on a low turnout and on a platform of stopping
national power flowing to Brussels. Poland's Self-Defence group, led by the
former pig farmer Andrzej Lepper (right), and the League of Catholic Families,
may also send their 18 MEPs to this group. Mr Lepper wants a fairer deal,
including more generous farm subsidies, just months after joining the club.

Several Dutch MEPs and a French group known as "sovereignists" are likely to be
interested in joining. So are newcomers from Lithuania and Slovakia.

Reformers

Two new parties may remain independent. Dutchman Paul Van Buitenen won two seats
for Transparent Europe. He is a former EU official whose whistleblowing played a
key role in the downfall of Jacques Santer's commission over a sleaze and
cronyism scandal in 1999. Austrian MEP Hans Peter Martin won two seats for his
group, campaigning against the abuse of expenses in the parliament.

Conservative sceptics

The EPP or European People's Party is the main centre-right alliance in the
parliament and the majority group, with 276 seats. It already includes British
Tories, whose more eurosceptic members are under pressure from federalist
Germans to leave. May be joined by sceptic Czech Civic Democrats, who won nine
seats.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              278 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

Vote further polarises Ulster politics

BYLINE: Angelique Chrisafis, Ireland correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 268 words


The polarisation of Northern Ireland politics was reinforced last night as the
hardline Democratic Unionist Party topped the European poll and Sinn Fein
returned its first ever candidate to Strasbourg.

The DUP gained almost 32% of the vote, and even with the retirement from
Strasbourg of Ian Paisley - who topped the poll for 25 years - the party
exceeded its vote share from the last European elections in 1999.

The new MEP, Jim Allister, said he did not rule out working with the UK
Independence party to "stymie and thwart the Europhile agenda".

But with the Good Friday Agreement review starting up again at Stormont this
morning, the burning issue was local politics. Mr Allister used his victory
speech to issue a warning to Tony Blair that the DUP would not work with Sinn
Fein "terrorists" in devolved government.

Sinn Fein took 26% of the vote, gaining its first Strasbourg seat and pushing
the moderate nationalist SDLP out of Europe.

The victory of Sinn Fein's new Northern Ireland MEP Bairbre de Brun came shortly
after the young Dubliner Mary Lou McDonald won the party its first European seat
in the Republic.

The province's third European seat went to the Ulster Unionist Jim Nicholson,
after second preference votes were counted.

Sinn Fein also more than doubled its presence on local councils in the Irish
Republic, severely denting Bertie Ahern's ruling Fianna Fail party.

But the Irish government was able to take some comfort in the results of its
citizenship referendum, in which 79% voted to end the right to citizenship of
any child born in Ireland.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              279 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

SNP snub is little comfort for Scots Labour

BYLINE: Kirsty Scott

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 311 words


Labour in Scotland avoided the humiliation heaped on the party elsewhere in the
EU elections, as voters snubbed the Scottish National party.

In results announced at noon yesterday in Edinburgh's historic Mercat Cross,
Labour secured 26.3% and two MEPs. The SNP kept its two seats, but saw its vote
drop to 19.6%, well down on 1999. The nationalists had pledged to overtake
Labour, and fresh doubts will be raised about the leadership of John Swinney.

The Scottish Conservatives held their two seats with 17.7%, and might have done
better if it had not been for the UK Independence party on 6.68%, just behind
the Greens (6.75%). The Lib Dems took the remaining seat with 13.06%. The
Scottish Socialists won 5.2%.

The Labour MEP David Martin said it had been a difficult election. Labour was
left one seat down after Scotland's eight seats were reduced to seven to take
account of enlargement: "The voters in Scotland clearly decided to give Labour a
shake rather than a kick, but we will nevertheless learn the lessons of this
campaign."

John Curtice, Scotland's leading electoral expert, said there was little for
Labour to be pleased about. "Compared to the utter calamity south of the border,
you could regard this as an everyday disaster," he said. "It is still the worst
Labour result in Scotland since 1918."

Mr Swinney put a brave face on the SNP's results, arguing that if replicated at
a general election, it would take nine seats. "The challenge is to overtake
Labour. We remain focused on that." At the 1999 European elections, the SNP came
less than 2% behind Labour, with more than 27%. Professor Curtice said: "It
confirms that the SNP are in the doldrums."

In Wales Labour won two seats, the Conservatives and Plaid Cymru one each, and
Ukip pushed the Lib Dems into fifth place.

guardian.co.uk/politics/ elections2004


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              280 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 15, 2004

EU searches for an answer to apathy: Turnout Governments survey the damage

BYLINE: Ian Black, in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 819 words


Europe's leaders were struggling yesterday to come up with a convincing response
to the hostility displayed by millions of citizens in the continent's largest
democratic exercise.

From Berlin to Birmingham, governments surveyed the damage done by the huge vote
of no confidence in EU institutions.

Ben Bot, the Dutch foreign minister, called the unprecedentedly low 45% turnout
over four days of voting a "disaster" and demanded urgent action to "sell"
Europe better.

Ministers and analysts agreed that the results meant it would be even harder to
clinch a deal on the EU constitution at this week's Brussels summit.

The worst turnout - 26% -was recorded in the 10 states that joined the EU only
last month in a fanfare of superlatives about reunifying a long-divided
continent.

David Harley, spokesman for the European parliament, said it was "disappointing
and pathetically low".

Turnout in Slovakia was just 17% and in Poland, the largest of the eastern
European entrants, 21%.

"We saw this coming," said Marco Incerti of the Centre for European Policy
Studies in Brussels. "But the sheer scale of abstention was unexpected."

In Italy, a TV journalist received twice as many votes as the premier, Silvio
Berlusconi, in Rome. Lilli Gruber, one of Italy's most recognisable faces, got
236,689 votes, compared with Mr Berlusconi's 116,262. His Forza Italia party
took a beating across the country, weakening its position within an already
fractious government.

In Germany, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder vowed to press on with unpopular
economic reforms despite the worst national election result for his Social
Democratic party in half a century.

It was no better in France, where the unpopular centre-right government of
Jean-Pierre Raffarin was trounced by the opposition Socialists for its handling
of pension and welfare reforms. Spain, where the Socialists came to power in
March vowing to withdraw troops from Iraq, was a rare exception to the
punishment meted out to incumbents.

The combination of a historic low turnout and the rise of anti-European parties,
from Britain's Ukip to Poland's Self-Defence League, left leaders floundering.

"Europe," said Pat Cox, the outgoing Irish president of the parliament, "has
been too absent in too many campaigns."

Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, said the result underlined the need for
greater transparency and efficiency in the new constitution.

Negotiations on simplifying decision-making are already tough, but Britain's
"red lines" on safeguarding national vetoes may look even redder now that Ukip's
Robert Kilroy-Silk has made his mark.

The same will be true of other weakened governments.

The constitution needs to be ratified by every member state, and low turnout
could prevent those holding referendums reaching the necessary threshold.

The poor showing in the east made life easier for anti-European parties such as
those in Poland, which used the vote to exact revenge for losing the EU
membership referendum last year.

"For the new countries, Europe is too complicated," said Wilfried Martens, a
former prime minister of Belgium and president of the European Peoples party,
the centre-right grouping in the Strasbourg assembly.

"I hope that the new constitution will create a clear and more transparent
political system that will replace technical and bureaucratic Europe," he said.

Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, the former prime minister of Denmark and president of the
centre-left party of European Socialists, said: "We have a gap between the
aspirations of ordinary people and the EU's record on jobs and growth.

"Our task is to break through the glass ceiling between national frustration and
European possibilities."

Mr Incerti said: "Leaders conducted 25 national campaigns, not a single European
one. In an enlarged EU it is not enough for a political group to win in one
country because the gains of French Socialists, say, are offset by the losses of
Polish Socialists."

Daniel Cohn-Bendit, France's Green leader, said: "Most of the campaigns debated
only national issues so it is not surprising that citizens were not properly
mobilised to vote or that Euroscepticism was fostered."

For example, a French person may elect an MEP in protest at national tax
policies, but the European parliament has no power over French tax - or over
policy in Iraq, the biggest common theme in the elections.

In parliament, it was business as usual yesterday. As the results came in, the
only real excitement was the match between England and France.

Talks on the constitution continued, with growing concern that failure this week
- after that at December's summit - would again show the EU in a poor light.

The "political credibility" of the union was now at stake, warned Brian Cowen,
Ireland's foreign minister. "We need to show that Europe works."

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              281 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

THE TRUE FACE OF A PARTY WHICH WANTS US OUT OF EUROPE;
 (OR 10 THINGS THE UKIP WOULD RATHER YOU DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT THEM) Robert
Kilroy-Silk celebrating his election victory with a glass of English wine Toby
Madden

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 659 words


Twelve angry men

1UKIP's 12 new MEPs are all white, male, and aged between 50 and 65. They
include the man who, in his Labour MP days - before he became a television
celebrity and controversial newspaper columnist (now retired) - was once touted
as a future prime minister. Robert Kilroy-Silk's colleagues include a former
Tory whip, a retired undertaker and an ex-teacher. They are promising to act
together in a guerrilla campaign to wreck the workings of the European
Parliament: this may be ambitious for a party which has been riven by internal
divisions and has a poor record of attendance at the Parliament.

A far-right alliance?

2In the last European parliament, the three UKIP MEPs sat with the EDD group
(for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities). The group is eurosceptic but not
in favour of withdrawal. The question is: where will UKIP sit in the next
parliament? They may stay with the EDD or they could form a new grouping with
MEPs totally opposed to membership. UKIP may even opt to join up with the
far-right, as represented by Jean-Marie Le Pen.

Nice work if you can get it

3UKIP's three MEPs in the last European Parliament had modest records. Graham
Booth ranked 433rd in attendance out of 625, Nigel Farage was 554th, and Jeffrey
Titford was 543rd. Each claim their parliamentary salary of pounds 65,000 a
year, and allowances can double that figure. For all that, they managed one
parliamentary question during their five-year term.

Disillusioned Thatcherites

4UKIP traces its origins to the convulsions in the Tory Party in the early 1990s
over John Major's support for the Maastricht Treaty when Alan Sked, a lecturer
at the London School of Economics, set up the Anti-Federalist League. He was an
ex-Liberal candidate, but most members were disillusioned Thatcherites.

New Britain, old prejudices

5Two senior UKIP figures, Mike Nattrass and Jeffrey Titford, are past members of
the New Britain Party, founded as a pro-Rhodesia and anti- "coloured
immigration" party. Mr Nattrass, elected as an MEP yesterday, stood for New
Britain in the 1994 Dudley by- election. Asked recently about it, he said: "It
isn't what you're thinking. It's not racist. It's more interested in celebrating
the Queen's birthday and things like that."

Seriously deluded'

6George Eustice, a senior adviser to Tory leader Michael Howard, who has
described UKIP as "extremists" stood for the party in 1999, wearing a "Leave the
European Union" slogan across his chest. He has said: "Although there are quite
a lot of well-meaning people in UKIP, they are quite seriously deluded."

Dial Max for information

7Max Clifford, a supporter of the Blair administration, has taken a leading role
in UKIP's media strategy, in relation to its celebrity backers and donors. When
it was revealed a retired bookie had given the party pounds 500,000, callers
were referred to the veteran publicist.

Three MEPs, three views

8Alan Sked has said: "UKIP's MEPs are a standing joke at Strasbourg, where ...
the three often vote in different ways on the same issue." He condemns UKIP for
taking up its seats in the European Parliament, saying the money would have been
better spent on the National Health Service.

The Big Split

9The party split in 2000 when more than 200 members left in protest against the
election of Jeffrey Titford as leader. He beat Rodney Atkinson, brother of
comedian Rowan. The strife split the party's three Euro MPs into two camps.

The BNP plot

10UKIP announced in February it had smashed an "infiltration" attempt by the
British National Party. It expelled a member in Yorkshire, who, it said, was
also a senior BNP official, and an activist in Bath accused of passing
information to the BNP. But Richard Corbett, a Labour MEP, said: "In Yorkshire,
where both the BNP and UKIP put up candidates, they appear to have come to an
arrangement not to stand against one another."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              282 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: BLAIR TRIES TO REASSURE MPS BUT RULES OUT IRAQ APOLOGY;
  LABOUR

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR Tony Blair leaving No 10 on his way to the
House of Commons yesterday John D McHugh/AP

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 550 words


TONY BLAIR told Labour MPs last night to hold their nerve after the European
Parliament elections resulted in the party's worst performance in a national
vote since 1918.

The Prime Minister won an informal vote of confidence at the weekly meeting of
the Parliamentary Labour Party after insisting that the party's 23 per cent
share of the vote would not prevent it winning a third successive general
election triumph next year.

Mr Blair rejected growing demands from Labour MPs for him to apologise over the
Iraq war, which ministers have blamed for the party's poor showing in the
council and European elections. One senior cabinet minister said: "He won't say
sorry. He can't. It would bring the whole thing tumbling down on him."

The Prime Minister admitted that Labour had suffered a "bad set of results,"
adding: "The public needs to know that we are controlling events, not events
controlling us."

He argued that the spectacular rise of the United Kingdom Independence Party
(UKIP), would have little impact on the central battle between Labour and the
Tories. He said there was "no desire" in the country for a Tory government,
saying that the Tories had no "big idea".

He reassured his MPs by unveiling Labour's new theme - "quality and choice" in
"personalised" public services. Five-year plans for health, education, transport
and crime will be launched in the next few weeks.

UKIP won 16 per cent of the votes, raising its number of MEPs rose from three to
12. Labour took 19 seats with 23 per cent of the vote, the Tories took 27 seats,
but saw their share of the vote fall by 9 percentage points to 27 per cent,
their lowest since the 1832 Great Reform Act. The Liberal Democrats took 12
seats with 15 per cent of the vote, up by two points.

Mr Blair's failure to grasp the nettle on Europe was criticised as the party
began its inquest into election results.

Chris Patten, the European commissioner and former Tory chairman, said: " I do
not doubt that the Prime Minister was entirely genuine in arguing that he wants
to make Britain comfortable with its role in Europe, but what has happened? How
do the speeches of the Chancellor of the Exchequer help that process? How does
it help to conduct diplomacy in terms of red lines and last ditches?

"The Prime Minister has made a number of very good speeches about Europe -
mainly outside Britain. He is going to have to start fighting for a vision of
Europe. The Conservative Party's record speaks for itself."

Neil Kinnock, the former Labour leader and another member of the Brussels
Commission, urged Mr Blair to launch a drive to win the support of the British
people for the proposed EU constitution, on which the Prime Minister has
promised a referendum.

"The battle is joined and we had better get stuck in," he said. "We will do it
by candour, explanation, fact and destroying myths and legends."

Mr Blair's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister recognises that there
are those who are sceptical about the benefits of Europe.  He accepts that there
has to be a strong argument put of the Government's position on Europe and that
will be put if a treaty is agreed. But what's important is to have a considered,
rational debate about what's in this country's long-term interest."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              283 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: HOWARD RESHUFFLES TO SHARPEN APPEAL;
 THE CONSERVATIVES

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 654 words


MICHAEL HOWARD was accused of "panic" yesterday after reshuffling his Shadow
Cabinet to sharpen the Tories' appeal on health and education, after losing out
to the UKIP in the European elections.

Mr Howard told Tory MPs at a private meeting at the Commons last night that the
reshuffle was aimed at shifting the focus to the party's plans for improving
public services, including proposals for vouchers to give patients and pupils
more choice in health care and education. But there was growing pressure from
Eurosceptic MPs and peers for Mr Howard to harden the Tory line on Europe to win
back voters who deserted to the UKIP before the next general election.

A group of Eurosceptic hardliners met in secret at the Commons before Mr Howard
met his backbenchers in a committee room to discuss the European elections. "If
it means losing two or three Europhile MPs like Ken Clarke, I won't complain,"
said one MP who was at the hardliners' meeting.

Lord Tebbit, a former Tory chairman and close ally of Baroness Thatcher, was
among those who called on Mr Howard to keep the focus of the Tory campaign for
the general election on Europe to win back voters from UKIP.

He told The Independent: "Michael Howard should say that if the French and
Germans want to go along with a new EU constitution treaty, they can, but we
will not be part of a common foreign policy, single tax system. We want to keep
control over our own frontiers, our agriculture, criminal law and go back to a
single market."

Tony Blair is expected to use his own press conference today to argue that such
a hardline policy would mean a Tory government would have to withdraw from
Europe.

Some senior members of the Shadow Cabinet, including Michael Ancram, the shadow
Foreign Secretary, have urged the Tory leader since the weekend to hold firm to
the policy of staying in the EU. "The UKIP vote will return to us at the general
election. We have to stay in Europe. We cannot ape UKIP by talking about pulling
out," said one frontbencher.

The Conservative leader surprised his Shadow Cabinet by announcing a snap
reshuffle yesterday. Tim Yeo was summoned to Mr Howard's office at the Commons
to be told he was being switched from health and education to take over the
transport and environment brief from Theresa May. Ms May, who was demoted by Mr
Howard from her job as party chairman, was put in charge of family policy. A
shadow cabinet member said: "Yeo has been told to get a grip on transport
policy. We haven't really got one at the moment."

Senior Tories were expecting a reshuffle in late July to coincide with Tony
Blair's government reshuffle. But Mr Howard decided last week that it was time
for a change, telling friends the Conservatives needed to be 10 points ahead of
Labour in the polls.

A source close to Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, said: "This is a
desperate attempt to divert attention from UKIP."

The changes also amounted to an admission that the radical slimming down of the
Shadow Cabinet has not worked. Mr Howard put Mr Yeo in charge of the two big
public service portfolios when he won the leadership unopposed. Yesterday, he
promoted the Tory health and education spokesmen, Andrew Lansley and Tim
Collins, to the Shadow Cabinet.

THE NEW TORY PORTFOLIOS

Michael Howard: Leader of the Opposition

Michael Ancram: International affairs, shadow foreign secretary and deputy
leader

Tim Collins: Education

David Davis: Home, constitutional and legal affairs & shadow home secretary

Liam Fox: Co-chairman of the Conservative Party

Andrew Lansley: Health

Oliver Letwin: Economic affairs & shadow chancellor of the exchequer

David Maclean: Chief whip

Theresa May: The family

Lord Saatchi: Co-chairman of the Conservative Party

Caroline Spelman: Local and devolved government affairs

Lord Strathclyde: Leader of the Opposition, House of Lords

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              284 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: KENNEDY SAYS: WE'VE GOT IT RIGHT';
 LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 328 words


CHARLES KENNEDY is to make Britain's support for the European Union a central
theme in the run up to the general election after winning two extra seats in the
Euro-elections.

The Liberal Democrat leader believes the gains were "a vindication of the
party's pro-European stance" and showed the British people were not
overwhelmingly Eurosceptic.

The Liberal Democrats gained two new MEPs, including their first seat in the
North-east of England and the election of their first ethnic minority
Parliamentarian, Saj Karim, in the North-west.

They also held on to their 10 sitting MEPs, even though their share of the vote
slipped behind that of UKIP.

Yesterday Mr Kennedy's spokesman said the result showed that the next election
would be defined by "three- party politics" and showed the Liberal Democrats
could make electoral gains. Mr Kennedy said the elections had been "a disaster"
for the Tories, who he said were "rapidly becoming redundant in European
politics".

In the local elections, the Liberal Democrats made inroads into Labour's urban
heartlands in the North. The party drove the Labour Party into third place and
gained control of Newcastle council, which has been held by Labour for 30 years.

But the Liberal Democrat performance was marred by the elections to be London
Mayor, where Simon Hughes polled little more than 15 per cent of the vote and
trailed in third place.

Yesterday party sources said that they were disappointed by the London result
and thought the campaign failed to mobilise the true extent of Liberal Democrat
support in the capital.

But Mr Hughes, who is considered one of the Liberal Democrats' parliamentary
stars, is expected to return to centre stage. Although he was forced to give up
his home affairs job, he will remain a member of the party's front bench in a
high-profile role.

He is also believed to be considering whether to run as party president against
Lembit Opik, the Welsh MP.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              285 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: DUP TOPS ULSTER POLL, BUT SINN FEIN THE REAL WINNERS;
  EUROPEAN POLL

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK AND PAUL KELBIE Bairbre de Brun, the new MEP, with Sinn
Fein president, Gerry Adams, yesterday Paul Faith/PA Photo

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 852 words


SINN FEIN were the most conspicuous winners in both parts of Ireland yesterday,
taking the party's first-ever European seats in the Republic and in Northern
Ireland.

Its performance was accompanied by success in Belfast for the Democratic
Unionist Party, which topped the poll even though its charismatic leader, the
Rev Ian Paisley, did not stand in the contest.

These results confirm that efforts to restore devolution in Belfast, which will
begin later this week, will only succeed if the DUP and the republicans can
strike a deal together.

The third Northern Ireland seat was last night set to go to Jim Nicholson of
David Trimble's Ulster Unionist Party. The fact that the DUP took almost twice
as many votes as the UUP emphasised the new DUP ascendancy within unionism.

The new Sinn Fein MEPs are Bairbre de Brun in the north and Mary Lou McDonald in
Dublin.

In the south the main features were Sinn Fein's performance, which some comment-
ators regard as a breakthrough into mainstream southern politics, and the
punishment meted out by voters to Fianna Fail, the main governing party.

It took a hammering both in Europe and in the simultaneous council elections,
commentators suggesting that voters regarded the government as arrogant.

Taoiseach Bertie Ahern conceded that the election was a serious rebuff to his
government, saying his party took no comfort from the results. There would be a
major cabinet re-shuffle in September, he announced.

The result was a boost for Fine Gael, the major opposition party, which has been
struggling for several years and which yesterday claimed it had turned a corner.
The advances it has made in these elections mean it can argue that it is
becoming a credible leader of an alternative coalition government.

Mr Ahern's government did however score a comfortable victory in last week's
referendum on Irish citizenship, with a 79 per cent vote in favour of his
government's call for new restrictions. Citizenship will now only be granted to
babies with at least one parent who has lived in Ireland for at least three of
the last four years.

In Scotland, a higher than expected turnout maintained the status quo for the
three main parties in the European election as Labour, the Tories and the
Scottish National Party each emerged with two seats.

As the final results were announced yesterday it appeared that the biggest
surprise of the campaign was the turnout - 30.7 per cent, or 6 per cent higher
than in 1999, and far higher than predicted.

The final seat in the seven allocated to Scotland was won by the Liberal
Democrats, who achieved 13.06 per cent of the ballot, although the UK
Independence Party staged a credible performance to come from nowhere in 1999 to
achieve 6.68per cent of the votes - a whisker behind the Greens at 6.75per cent.

The Tories achieved a respectable 17.7 per cent while Labour won 26.33 per cent
and the Scottish Socialist Party obtained 5.2 per cent.

Although the Scottish Nationalists emerged with 19.61 per cent of the vote and
held on to two seats, the result was yesterday seen as a failure of the party
leadership to overtake Labour.

Critics of the SNP leader, John Swinney, called it a disaster for his
credibility as he "failed miserably" to beat Labour's share of the vote -
eventually coming in nearly 7 per cent behind.

At the 1999 European elections they had come less than 2 per cent behind Labour
- Labour with under 29 per cent of the votes and the SNP with more than 27 per
cent.

"We achieved our major objective which was to hold our two-seat position," said
Mr Swinney, in his defence.

Scotland's MEPs are now David Martin and Catherine Stihler for Labour; Ian
Hudghton and Alyn Smith for the SNP; Struan Stevenson and John Purvis for the
Tories, and Elspeth Attwooll for the Liberal Democrats.

POLL RESULTS

EUROPEAN ASSEMBLY RESULT DECLARED YESTERDAY

SCOTLAND

Additional members elected Struan Stevenson (C); John Purvis (C); David Martin
(Lab); Ms Catherine Stihler (Lab); Ms Elspeth Attwooll (LD); Ian Hudghton (SNP);
Alyn Smith (SNP)

Lab 310,865 (26.42); SNP 231,505 (19.67); C 209,028 (17.76); LD 154,178 (13.10);
Green 79,695 (6.77); UKIP 78,828 (6.70); SSP 61,356 (5.21); OCV 21,056 (1.79);
BNP 19,427 (1.65); Wind Watch 7,255 (0.62); Ind 3,624 (0.31)

Lab maj 79,360 (6.74) 2.61% swing SNP to Lab

1999 Lab 14,962 (1.51%) Lab (283,490%), SNP (268,528%), C (195,296%), LD
(96,971%), Green (57,142%), SSP (39,720%), Pro Euro C (17,781%), UKIP (12,549%),
Soc Lab (9,385%), BNP (3,729%), NLP (2,087%), Lower Tax (1,632%)

LATE LOCAL AUTHORITY RESULTS

BIRMINGHAM

Boundary Change

LD, 28; C, 39; Lab, 53

NOC No change.

WALSALL

Boundary Change

Ind, 1; Lab, 18; C, 35; LD, 6

C, gain from NOC.

KEY TO ABBREVIATIONS

C Conservative

Lab Labour

LD Liberal Democrat

PC Plaid Cymru

Green Green Party

BNP British National Party

Ind Independent and Others

IR Ratepayers or Residents

Soc All Socialist Alliance

Soc Alt Socialist Alternative

UKIP United Kingdom Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              286 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: BREAKTHROUGH FOR SINN FEIN ON BOTH SIDES OF THE BORDER DUP TOPS
ULSTER POLL, BUT SINN FEIN THE REAL WINNERS

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK AND PAUL KELBIE Bairbre de Brun, a new MEP, with the
Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, yesterday Paul Faith/PA Photo

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 864 words


SINN FEIN were the most conspicuous winners in both parts of Ireland yesterday,
taking the party's first-ever European seats in the Republic and in Northern
Ireland.

Its performance was accompanied by success in Belfast for the Democratic
Unionist Party, which topped the poll even though its charismatic leader, the
Rev Ian Paisley, did not stand in the contest.

These results confirm that efforts to restore devolution in Belfast, which will
begin later this week, will only succeed if the DUP and the republicans can
strike a deal together.

The third Northern Ireland seat last night went to Jim Nicholson of David
Trimble's Ulster Unionist Party. The fact that the DUP took almost twice as many
votes as the UUP emphasised the new DUP ascendancy within unionism.

The new Sinn Fein MEPs are Bairbre de Brun in the north and Mary Lou McDonald in
Dublin.

In the south, the main features were Sinn Fein's performance and the punishment
meted out by voters to Fianna Fail, the main governing party.

Fianna Fail took a hammering both in Europe and in the simultaneous council
elections, with commentators suggesting that voters regarded the government as
arrogant.

The Irish Prime Minister, Bertie Ahern, conceded that the election was a serious
rebuff to his government, saying his party took no comfort from the results.
There would be a major cabinet re-shuffle in September, he announced.

The result was a boost for Fine Gael, the opposition party, which has been
struggling for several years. The advances it has made mean it can argue that it
is becoming a credible leader of an alternative coalition government.

Mr Ahern's government did, however, score a comfortable victory in last week's
referendum on Irish citizenship, with a 79 per cent vote in favour of his
government's call for new restrictions. Citizenship will now only be granted to
babies with at least one parent who has lived in Ireland for at least three of
the last four years.

In Scotland, a higher than expected turnout maintained the status quo for the
three main parties in the European election as Labour, the Tories and the
Scottish National Party each emerged with two seats.

The biggest surprise of the campaign was the turnout - 30.7 per cent, or 6 per
cent higher than in 1999.

The final seat in the seven allocated to Scotland was won by the Liberal
Democrats, who achieved 13.06 per cent of the ballot, although the UK
Independence Party staged a credible performance to come from nowhere in 1999 to
6.68 per cent of the votes - a whisker behind the Greens at 6.75 per cent.

The Tories achieved a respectable 17.7 per cent while Labour won 26.33 per cent
and the Scottish Socialist Party obtained 5.2 per cent.

Although the Scottish Nationalists emerged with 19.61 per cent of the vote and
held on to two seats, the result was seen as a failure of the party leadership
to overtake Labour.

Critics of the SNP leader, John Swinney, called it a disaster for his
credibility as he "failed miserably" to beat Labour's share of the vote -
eventually coming in nearly 7 per cent behind. At the 1999 European elections
they had come less than 2 per cent behind Labour.

"We achieved our major objective which was to hold our two-seat position," said
Mr Swinney, in his defence.

Scotland's MEPs are now David Martin and Catherine Stihler for Labour; Ian
Hudghton and Alyn Smith for the SNP; Struan Stevenson and John Purvis for the
Tories, and Elspeth Attwooll for the Liberal Democrats.

RESULTS

EUROPEAN ASSEMBLY RESULT DECLARED YESTERDAY

SCOTLAND

Additional members elected Struan Stevenson (C); John Purvis (C); David Martin
(Lab); Ms Catherine Stihler (Lab); Ms Elspeth Attwooll (LD); Ian Hudghton (SNP);
Alyn Smith (SNP)

Lab 310,865 (26.42); SNP 231,505 (19.67); C 209,028 (17.76); LD 154,178 (13.10);
Green 79,695 (6.77); UKIP 78,828 (6.70); SSP 61,356 (5.21); OCV 21,056 (1.79);
BNP 19,427 (1.65); Wind Watch 7,255 (0.62); Ind 3,624 (0.31)

Lab maj 79,360 (6.74) 2.61% swing SNP to Lab

1999 Lab 14,962 (1.51%) Lab (283,490%), SNP (268,528%), C (195,296%), LD
(96,971%), Green (57,142%), SSP (39,720%), Pro Euro C (17,781%), UKIP (12,549%),
Soc Lab (9,385%), BNP (3,729%), NLP (2,087%), Lower Tax (1,632%)

NORTHERN IRELAND

Additional members elected Jim Allister (DUP), Ms Bairbre de Brun (SF), Jim
Nicholson (UUP). DUP 175,761 (32.00), SF 144,541 (26.31), UUP 91,164 (16.60),
SDLP 87,559 (15.94), Ind 36,270 (6.60), Soc Env 9,172 (1.67), Green 4,810
(0.88). DUP maj 31,220 (0.57) Swing NOC to NOC 1999: DUP 192,762, Hume SDLP
190,731, UUP 119,507, SF 117,643, PUP 22,494, UKU 20,283, Alliance 14,391, NLP
998

LATE LOCAL AUTHORITY RESULTS

BIRMINGHAM

Boundary Change

LD, 28; C, 39; Lab, 53

NOC No change.

WALSALL

Boundary Change

Ind, 1; Lab, 18; C, 35; LD, 6

C, gain from NOC.

KEY TO ABBREVIATIONS

C Conservative

Lab Labour

LD Liberal Democrat

PC Plaid Cymru

Green Green Party

BNP British National Party

Ind Independent and Others

IR Ratepayers or Residents

Soc All Socialist Alliance

Soc Alt Socialist Alternative

UKIP United Kingdom Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              287 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: KILROY-SILK VOWS GUERRILLA CAMPAIGN TO WRECK' WORK OF EUROPEAN
PARLIAMENT;
 UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 958 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK, the newly elected UK Independence Party (UKIP) MEP, vowed
yesterday to lead a guerrilla campaign to "wreck" the working of the European
Parliament.

The party was jubilant yesterday after quadrupling its tally of European MPs
from three to 12, and pushing the Liberal Democrats into fourth place by
capturing 17 per cent of the vote.

Its leaders pledged to build on the stunning gains to build a "mass movement" to
fight the general election.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, whose candidacy won the party massive publicity, struck an
aggressive note when he was asked what he hoped to do in the Parliament. He
replied: "Wreck it. Expose it for the waste and the corruption and the way it is
eroding our independence and our sovereignty.

"Our job is to go there and say look, this is what they do, this is how they
waste your money, this is how they spend it, this is how it gets corrupted, this
is how they go on the gravy-train and spend their time in restaurants and the
rest of it'. That is what we are there to do - to expose the whole edifice."

He said he would be attending the Parliament only when necessary and would not
be getting "bogged down" in the committees and reports which take up much of
MEPs' time.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said UKIP's success would force the Tories to take a tougher line
on Europe - and predicted the party would be destroyed if Michael Howard did not
change his policy.

Nigel Farage, the UKIP's campaign chairman, said: "It is our intention to turn
this party over the course of the next year into a genuine mass movement."
UKIP's surge in support appeared to come mainly at the expense of the
Conservatives, although there are signs it picked up protest votes from all
parts of the political spectrum.

It came second in the popular vote in the South West, the South East, Eastern
region and the East Midlands, in each of which it won two MEPs. The party also
gained one MEP in London, the West Midlands, the North West and Yorkshire and
the Humber.

As revealed yesterday by The Independent, it plans to field candidates in every
one of the Westminster parliamentary constituencies in the general election,
expected next year.

Mr Farage appealed to pollsters and the media to recognise UKIP as the fourth
party and to stop including them in the category "Others".

"We have over 2.5 million voters - not bad for a party denounced as being cranks
and gadflies and extremists," he said. Mr Kilroy-Silk also brushed aside
suggestions that he was seeking to replace former Tory MP Roger Knapman as
leader of UKIP.

"Roger is the leader, he has been the leader for some time and he has brought
the party to its biggest electoral success and there are no plans, as I
understand, for that to change," said Mr Kilroy-Silk.

And he said he was not intending to stand as a candidate for the Westminster
Parliament, either in the upcoming Leicester South by-election, caused by the
death of Labour MP Jim Marshall and likely to be next month, or in the
Rushcliffe constituency of pro-European Conservative MP Kenneth Clarke in the
general election.

But asked if his decision not to stand held for all Westminster constituencies,
he answered: "No." Mr Kilroy-Silk said he expected the Conservatives to respond
to UKIP's success by taking a tougher line on Europe.

But he added: "We are not here to take account of the electoral prospects of
either the Labour Party or the Conservative Party. We are here to get our
country back.

"What the other parties do is up to them. What we are doing is prosecuting our
case because we believe in it and we believe it is what the vast majority of the
British people want."

THE UKIP MEPs

NIGEL FARAGE (South-east)

Commodity broker who was a founder member. Led a breakaway group during party
infighting after its disastrous result in the 1997 election.

JEFFREY TITFORD (Eastern)

Former UKIP leader. An undertaker from Essex who sold the family business to
concentrate on fishing and golf. Also a former Tory councillor.

GRAHAM BOOTH (South-west)

Ran a holiday business in Devon for 40 years before retiring in 2000. Took over
seat in 2002 from Michael Holmes who resigned from UKIP.

GERARD BATTEN (London)

British Telecom salesman who helped found UKIP after John Major signed the
Maastricht treaty in 1993. Has vowed never to carry an identity card.

GODFREY BLOOM (Yorkshire and the Humber)

Financial economist and a fan of country sports. Warned BNP "extremists" off
after plot to infiltrate UKIP was exposed.

DEREK CLARK (East Midlands)

Former teacher who started the UKIP's Northamptonshire Branch in 1995 and became
party secretary three years ago.

ROBERT KILROY-SILK (East Midlands)

Former Labour MP and BBC chat-show host, sacked over references to Arabs in a
newspaper column. Seen as UKIP's leader in waiting.

ROGER KNAPMAN (South-west)

Chartered surveyor and former Tory whip who lost his Stroud seat in 1997 and set
up a property business. Defected to UKIP in 2000.

ASHLEY MOTE (South-east)

Professional writer who has published works on business management and cricket
history, now a regular speaker on the Eurosceptic circuit.

MIKE NATTRASS (West Midlands)

Birmingham businessman who owns a firm making stone fireplaces. UKIP chairman
who stood for the anti-immigration New Britain Party in 1994.

JOHN WHITTAKER (North-west)

Economist, specialising in monetary policy, at Lancaster University. He says he
is fighting to free small business from political correctness.

TOM WISE (Eastern)

Formerly UK managing director of Germany's biggest herb and spice company after
a career in the food industry, during which he oversaw many product launches.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              288 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: THE SMALLER PARTIES - THE GREEN PARTY

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 155 words


THE GREEN party's hopes of progress in the European elections were dashed on
Sunday, mainly because it failed to beat off competition from other minority
parties.

The Greens held on to their two MEPs (Jean Lambert in London and Caroline Lucas
in the South-east), taking 6.25 per cent (1,028,283) of the national vote.

But the party failed to make predicted gains partly because of the rise of UKIP.
The Respect anti-war coalition, headed by the former Labour MP George Galloway,
also robbed the party of anti-war votes.

Expected wins in the South-west, where they gained 7.2 per cent of the vote,
down 1.1 per cent, and the North-west (5.6 per cent of the vote) failed to
materialise, despite energetic canvassing and a slicker, more sophisticated
campaign from Green Party central office.

But a spokeswoman for the party said: "We now have a core Green vote and we are
here to stay. We will bounce back."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              289 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: LABOUR AND TORIES SHARE DANGEROUS COMPLACENCY;
 ANALYSIS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE UKIP's newly elected MEPs at Westminster with a bottle of
English- made sparkling wine Toby Madden

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 781 words


IN MY part of north London, supporters of the United Kingdom Independence Party
(UKIP) attached their stickers to the St George's flags which supporters of the
England football team were sporting on their cars.

People would have removed them if they had been put there by the British
National Party. But they didn't bother. UKIP seemed pretty harmless, even if
they didn't agree with them.

The timing of the start of Euro 2004 was fortunate for UKIP, ensuring the usual
media-driven wave of nationalism ahead of last Thursday's European elections.
Yesterday, UKIP had a lot more to celebrate than the England fans.

There was nothing for the Tories or Labour to cheer. They took comfort from each
other's problems, dismissed UKIP as a flash in the pan and told their MPs not to
lose their nerve.

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, upset some Labour colleagues when he said he
was "mortified" by the council election results. This was off message: the
official line was that the Tories had not done well enough. Yet perhaps a bit
more Blunkett-style honesty would make the established parties less vulnerable
to protest votes.

True, the European election results should be kept in perspective. After the
Tories' victory under William Hague in 1999, number-crunchers in the House of
Commons library worked out what would happen if the European results were
repeated at the following general election. The result: Tories 352 seats, Labour
261, Liberal Democrats three.

The actual result in 2001, with first-past-the-post rather than proportional
representation and turnout more than double that at the European election, was:
Tories 166, Labour 413, Liberal Democrats 52.

So we shouldn't read too much into the European elections. The local election
results are a better guide to the general election expected next May. But the
Euro poll cannot be ignored and has big implications for the big two parties.

On the face of it, the Tories have more to worry about. They hoped to get 42 per
cent of the votes. Anything above the 40 per cent mark would have allowed
Michael Howard to claim his party had a chance of winning the next general
election. But they got 27 per cent.

It was a frustrating and messy first electoral test as party leader. But Mr
Howard was determined not to make the same mistake as Mr Hague, who would almost
certainly have tried to see off the UKIP threat by hardening the Tory line. Mr
Howard decided to "take a hit" now rather than reduce his party's prospects at
the general election.

A YouGov survey for Sky News suggests he was right. Tory supporters favour
UKIP's policy of pulling out of the EU by a margin of 47 per cent to 40 per
cent. But 51 per cent of the population as a whole want to stay in and only 33
per cent want to leave.

But there is no guarantee, as the Tories argued yesterday, that natural
Conservatives - who probably make up three-quarters of UKIP's support - will
return home at the general election. The Tories will have to win them back.

It is convenient for both the Tories and Labour to dismiss the UKIP advance as a
mid-term protest of no long-term significance. But they both sounded dangerously
complacent yesterday.

Labour cannot assume that people who have made their protest over Iraq will have
forgiven Mr Blair by next May. Mr Blair may well find that his problems go much
deeper than "Iraq". There is a lot of convincing to do on public services and no
law saying that, after eight years in power, Labour will win a general election
fought on its natural territory.

The European results will make it even harder for Mr Blair to "sell" the EU
constitution he is expected to agree at an EU summit starting on Thursday. His
pledge to offer a referendum on it will help him to neutralise Europe as an
issue at the general election, just as his promised one on the single currency
scuppered Mr Hague's attempt to play the European card in 2001. That is why Mr
Blair offered a plebiscite.

Again, Mr Blair sacrificed his genuinely pro-EU instincts for Labour's electoral
needs. By failing to make the case for Europe, the Prime Minister has left a
vacuum which Eurosceptic parties have filled, winning more than half of the
votes cast in last week's European elections. It is difficult to see now how Mr
Blair could win his constitution referendum.

Despite Mr Blair's desire to end Britain's "half-in, half-out" relationship with
Europe, he has been frightened off, partly by the Murdoch press. The question
now is not whether to join the single currency, but whether to remain in the EU
at all. It is difficult to see how Mr Blair's legacy on Europe will not be a
sorry one.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              290 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: THE GENERATION GAME: HOW THE EU, OLD AND NEW, VOTED

BYLINE: S BY PETER POPHAM The founding, 1957; Edward Heath takes the UK into the
Common Market, 1973; The EU membership rose to 25 countries this year

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1037 words


THE CLASS OF 1957 FOUNDERS OF THE COMMON MARKET

GERMANY*

(99 MEPs)

Opposition Christian Democrats trounced the ruling Social Democrats, leaving
them with their worst showing since the war - at 21.5 per cent their share of
the vote was half that of the opposition. But Chancellor Schroder vowed to
persist with his unpopular reform programme.

*East Germany was reunited with West Germany in October 1990

FRANCE (78 MEPs) President Jacques Chirac's Union for the Popular Movement
received its second hammering in three months, with the opposition Socialists
capitalising on anger over high unemployment and budget cuts. The Socialists
gained 30 per cent of votes, against 16.5 per cent for the ruling party.

ITALY (78 MEPs) Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's support slumped from 29 per
cent to 20 per cent. The big winner was Lilli Gruber, the former TV news reader
who came third overall in personal votes polled.

LUXEMBOURG (6 MEPs) This founder member of the EU bucked the anti-government
trend by giving 40 per cent of votes to Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker,
tipped to be the Commission's next president.

NETHERLANDS

(27 MEPs)

The Iraq war and a growing disillusionment with European Union policy were the
two themes that got the Dutch out to the polling stations, dealing a powerful
blow to the ruling coalition government which has put 1,400 troops in Iraq and
intends to keep them there.

BELGIUM (24 MEPs)

The rise of smaller parties in Belgium saw the far-right Flemish Bloc,
nationalists and racists who demand independence for Flemish-speaking parts of
Belgium, battering on Strasbourg's door, gaining several seats.

THE CLASS OF 1973

UNITED KINGDOM (78 MEPs) Labour took 19 seats with 23 per cent of the vote - its
lowest level in any national elections since 1918. The Tories took 27 seats, but
saw their share of the vote slump nine points to 27 per cent, while the Liberal
Democrats took 12 seats, seeing their share of the vote edge up two points to 15
per cent. The surge of support for the anti-Brussels UK Independence Party was
partially matched by improved showings for other small parties, including the
Greens. Turnout at 38.2 per cent was up 14 points on 1999 - if only because
Brussels-haters now had something to vote for.

DENMARK (14 MEPs) The pro-EU opposition Social Democrats won five out of 14
seats - but mainly because they, unlike the ruling Liberals, opposed the Iraq
war.

IRELAND (13 MEPs) Sinn Fein's success south of the border, with the election of
Mary Lou McDonald in Dublin, was the big surprise of the election. The result
was disappointing for Bertie Ahern's Fianna Fail, Ireland's dominant party for
several years.

THE CLASS OF 1981

GREECE (24 MEPs) The conservative New Democracy party, which won the recent
general elections, added to its success with a good result. Turnout was high at
61 per cent, and would have been higher still but for the lure of the beach.

THE CLASS OF 1986

SPAIN (54 MEPs)

The Socialist party of the new Prime Minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero,
cruised through the elections, losing percentage points to the conservative
Popular Party, but still taking a majority of seats.

PORTUGAL (24 MEPs) Normally a Euro-positive country, the poll was low. The
opposition Socialists trounced the ruling coalition, benefiting from hostility
over the Iraq war and fears of rising unemployment.

THE CLASS OF 1995

SWEDEN (19 MEPs) The June List, an anti-European party formed for this election,
stormed to a sensational success, taking 14.4 per cent of the votes. Only 37 per
cent voted.

AUSTRIA (18 MEPs) Hans-Peter Martin, the fraud-exposing journalist, sails into
Strasbourg with two MEPs, but the shock came from the humbling of the far-right
Freedom Party, down from 23.4 to 6.4 per cent.

FINLAND (14 MEPs) The opposition conservatives seized the largest share of the
vote, in another anti-incumbency demonstration. Turnout was 41.1 per cent,
thanks to a media campaign.

THE CLASS OF 2004 THE NEW EUROPE

POLAND (54 MEPs) With a pitiful turnout of about 20 per cent, the Poles dealt a
blow to the ex-Communists of the ruling Democratic Left Alliance. The winning
party, Civic Platform, strongly pro-EU, doubled its share of the vote.

HUNGARY (24 MEPs) The Socialist government lost out to the centre- right
opposition, which won half the seats, but the main talking-point was the
centre-right's MEP Livia Jaroka, the first Roma in Strasbourg, who has promised
to represent Europe's Gypsies.

CYPRUS (6 MEPs)

About 70 per cent of voters turned out, most of them backing candidates of the
two parties that rejected the UN plan to reunify the island.

MALTA (5 MEPs) There was a decent turnout - 71 per cent - but a sharp division
on the merits of joining the EU. While the conservative Nationals won that
argument, the anti-Europe Labour party edged them with three seats to two.

SLOVAKIA (14 MEPs) The Slovakian result went the way Brussels would have
preferred, with the poorer, more easterly half endorsing the leaders in the
centre-right coalition that took the country into the EU. The margin, however,
was slim.

CZECH REPUBLIC (24 MEPs) Prime Minister Vladimir Spidla will seek a vote of
confidence from his Social Democratic party after it won only two of the 24
seats. Mr Spidla was punished for unpopular reforms.

LITHUANIA (13 MEPs) The Christian Democrats won a majority, but voters loyal to
the disgraced former president Rolandas Paksas, sacked for divulging state
secrets and links to the Russian mafia, made a strong showing.

ESTONIA (6 MEPs) Europe will have to get to grips with the fact that Estonia,
with an electorate of 1 million, already appears bored to death with the EU it
aspired to join for so long. Only 26.7 per cent bothered to vote.

LATVIA (9 MEPs) The government took a pasting, winning only one seat.
Conservatives and the For Fatherland and Freedom Party were the main winners.

SLOVENIA (7 MEPs) Slovenia shows what has become the standard attitude of new EU
entrants: delighted to be in but siding with Groucho Marx in that they wouldn't
want to belong to any club that would have them for a member.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              291 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

LEADING ARTICLE: THESE ELECTION RESULTS LEAVE THE PRIME MINISTER WITH NO OPTION
BUT TO ARGUE THE CASE FOR EUROPE

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 966 words


ACROSS THE continent, Europeans have registered a massive vote of no confidence
in governments they themselves elected, sometimes only a matter of months ago.
From London, through Paris, Rome, Berlin and Warsaw, the message resounds loud
and clear: a plague on all your houses. Whatever the political complexion of the
government, its stance on Iraq, its economic performance or its professed social
objectives, a large majority of those casting a vote chose to use it in protest
against the party, or the people, in power.

In one way, this is an entirely acceptable use of the ballot box. Give voters a
chance, in the middle of a government's term, and they are likely to voice
objections. In another way, however, the results demonstrate just how remote the
European project remains to most voters. In elections for a new European
Parliament - a body whose authority and influence is growing, while that of
other European institutions wanes - voters focused almost exclusively on
national issues. They saw their votes less as a contribution to democracy in
Europe than as a chance to fire a warning across the bows of their own
government.

Not all voters cared enough even to register a protest. The turn-out almost
everywhere was down compared with five years ago, although Britain was an
honourable exception. The turn-out in most of the "new" European countries was
especially disappointing in the light of their enthusiasm to join the European
Union in the first place. The kindest explanation is that, after a decade of
free elections and having achieved their goal of EU membership, they are
suffering from election fatigue.

Where voters cared enough to vote, however, they cared in a predominantly
negative way, and nowhere was this clearer or more depressing than here in
Britain, where the European elections unleashed all the old demons of insular
anti-Europeanism. In the newly energised UK Independence Party, those opposed to
Europe found an outlet for their hostility. Perversely, the one nation that
actually voted on a European issue in the Euro elections was the one that is
most viscerally anti-European.

The only consolation is that we pro-Europeans now know what we are up against.
We know that, given the choice, almost one in five voters would currently
support Britain's withdrawal from the European Union altogether. More than one
in four (the Tory vote) take a sceptical view of Britain's EU membership. This
leaves the less than 40 per cent of the vote shared by Labour and the Liberal
Democrats as the measure of British voters' support for Europe. In other words,
this country remains as divided about Europe as ever it was.

While the implications of the protest for most other European governments are
unambiguous - the electorate does not particularly like what is being done in
its name, but has little choice but to lump it until the next general election -
the consequences for the British Government, and for Mr Blair personally, are
far more serious. The Euro election results were the second drubbing for the
Government within a week. Labour lost almost 500 seats at the local elections
and control of nine councils, including cities where its sway had long been
taken for granted. After months of pretending that the Iraq war was not a
factor, ministers finally came clean and admitted what their candidates had been
hearing on the doorstep: that they were furious with Labour, and with Tony
Blair, because of Iraq.

The Iraq war may have been less of a factor in the Euro elections, but it
certainly offered no recommendation to waverers considering a Labour vote. And
while Labour ministers insisted yesterday that the results of the European vote
were far worse for the Tories than for Labour, they were either deluding
themselves or being deliberately disingenuous. Certainly, the Tory vote fell by
9 per cent compared with five years ago. But the Tory vote then was unexpectedly
high, and the Tories were always going to suffer more from the UKIP effect than
any other party. In fact, UKIP and Iraq together seem to have taken a sizeable
chunk out of Labour's Euro vote, too. Labour could, and should, have attracted
far more support than it did.

The Prime Minister now finds himself caught in a double trap of his own making,
which entwines the vexed question of Europe and his own prospects at the next
general election. While most UKIP votes will return to the Tories at the next
general election, Mr Blair cannot be so confident of retrieving Labour
defectors. His clear hope had been to push all quarrelling about Europe off the
agenda with his promise to hold a referendum. If the European constitution is
agreed next week, the referendum promise will return to haunt him at the very
time when the chance of a "yes" vote looks bleaker than ever. Whether on the
narrow question of the EU constitution, or the broader one of staying in Europe,
the Euro elections have shown British voters to be as negatively disposed as
ever. Nor, after the Iraq debacle, are they inclined to do the Prime Minister
any favours.

Such a time calls for boldness. Mr Blair needs to throw caution to the wind and
fight. To look on the brightest side of the European election results, the
British public is not yet completely lost to the European cause. UKIP took 17
per cent of the vote, not 20 per cent, nor 30. This is the extent of diehard
anti-European sentiment in this country. There are pro-Europeans among Tories,
though they keep themselves well camouflaged, and more than 50 per cent of the
electorate did not feel strongly enough either way to cast a vote. There are
votes out there going begging. If he summoned up all his old gifts of
persuasion, Mr Blair could yet realise his ambition to reconcile Britain with
Europe.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              292 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: MR BLAIR'S STRATEGY OF KEEPING HIS HEAD DOWN OVER EUROPE HAS
FAILED DISASTROUSLY;
 AFTER A BRUTAL DRUBBING HE BREATHES AGAIN, ALTHOUGH IN A NEW CONTEXT

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1187 words


Tony Blair and Michael Howard seek to move on. The voters have delivered their
verdicts. The post mortems are more or less over. Now the leaders of the two
main parties will attempt to focus on other matters. Today the Prime Minister
will highlight his plans for the public services at his Downing Street press
conference. Having reshuffled his shadow cabinet, Mr Howard will give more
details of his policies for schools and hospitals in a speech tonight. For
different reasons, both of them are hoping desperately that the voters will move
on too.

No wonder Mr Blair seeks to stride ahead. For the last few months ministers have
accused the "Westminster village" of being uniquely obsessed with Iraq. Now they
cite the war as the main reason for their electoral humiliation. They do so for
a purpose. Under the guise of candour, the excuse allows them to add an
important qualification. In their view the war will have much less force at a
general election.

They argue that although Labour performed badly, it did so in unique political
circumstances. These normally wary, pessimistic ministers expect their
humiliation to be fleeting. They cling to the oscillating electoral experiences
of Margaret Thatcher for comfort, pointing out that she did badly in mid-term
elections, but won general elections by a landslide.

Not surprisingly, ministerial commentators are unreliable observers. After all
they are commentating partly on themselves. When Labour was soaring in the late
1990s they gloomily proclaimed that the political battle was ominously close.
Now Labour is coming third in national elections they are happily predicting
electoral triumphs in the future. They are sad when they should be happy and
content when they've cause to be worried.

A recovery for a governing party cannot be taken for granted. Harold Wilson's
landslide administration lost in 1970 after performing badly in local elections
two years earlier. John Major's government never managed to recover momentum
after poor local election results. In this case, Tony Blair has a unique
electoral problem in the form of the war against Iraq.

The conflict is his equivalent of Margaret Thatcher's poll tax. Mrs Thatcher
hailed the tax as a matter of principle. The detailed implications did not
bother her very much. Mr Blair supported the war as a matter of principle, but
gave inadequate consideration to the consequences. Both of them assumed their
principled stand would be popular with the majority of voters. The difference is
that the Conservatives were in a position to abolish the poll tax. Mr Blair
cannot abolish a war.

Instead, some of his closest allies have urged him to follow the next available
option and acknowledge that the intelligence in advance of the war was wrong,
but that he acted in good faith. Before his big speech on the war delivered in
Sedgefield earlier this year, they suggested to the Prime Minister that this was
the moment for a cathartic mea culpa over the lack of any weapons. Mr Blair
turned to them and asked: "What headline would you prefer to read the day after
the speech: Blair - I was wrong about the war' or Blair - why I went to war'?"

They took his point and persisted less forcefully. Mr Blair cannot apologise for
misjudging a war. My guess is that he has his doubts. He has had doubts about
the outcomes of policies a lot less calamitous. But he is stuck with appearing
arrogant and shifty because the alternative is even worse.

If the Conservatives were a credible alternative government, Mr Blair would be
facing a severe political crisis over this. Fortunately for him, they are some
way from being so. Mr Howard has made significant progress, but he is more or
less a one-man band, as yesterday's Shadow Cabinet reshuffle illustrated. The
changed positions of Tim Yeo and Tim Collins are likely to prompt a single
question from most voters: Who are Tim Yeo and Tim Collins? Or is it Tim Collins
and Tim Yeo?

It is not the fault of the two Tims. In a quite extraordinary and unprecedented
manner, the Conservative Party's stars gave up after the 1997 election. They
were too exhausted or demoralised to carry on. Alternatively some of those who
wanted to continue were deemed too unpopular. Ken Clarke, Michael Heseltine,
Michael Portillo, William Hague, John Major, and many others are nowhere to be
seen. Or at least not in the Shadow Cabinet. Some of them are seen rather a lot,
but not in what is supposed to be the alternative government. In 1970 Edward
Heath led a highly experienced and authoritative Shadow Cabinet as he
unexpectedly swept Harold Wilson aside. Mr Howard leads a Shadow Cabinet that is
still largely unknown.

His policies are not known either, although that has been an advantage for him.
As will become clearer over the next few weeks, the Conservatives' plans to
subsidise patients who want private operations and pupils who attend newly
created private schools are unlikely to sway the doubters. In policy terms, the
party does not appear to be much further forward than the election of 2001. The
choice at the next general election will be between Mr Howard's one-man band and
the current government, a starkly different choice to the multiple ballots
placed before voters last week.

If the Conservatives cannot win the next election, Labour cannot lose it. This
is the widely held proposition that gives Mr Blair some political space. After a
brutal drubbing, he breathes again, although in a new context in which Europe
has moved centre stage. As I argued last week, Europe is the issue that has
determined the shape of British politics for decades, and it is about to do so
again with the usual unpredictable consequences.

Mr Blair's strategy of keeping his head down, hoping to change people's minds by
stealth, has failed disastrously. The rise of UKIP and the new European
constitution means that he has no choice but to come out fighting, persuasively
and loudly. If he had done so after the 1997 election things might be different
now. As it is, he has to win a general election within two years in which Europe
will be a much more prominent issue than it was in 1997 and 2001.

Assuming he wins the election, he will then have a referendum to fight. A
cross-section of ministers I spoke to yesterday do not believe a referendum is
winnable next year. They also suspect that Blair will struggle to win back some
of those who deserted Labour last week to the extent that some question whether
he would be in a position to call a general election next summer.

Since he became Labour leader in 1994, Mr Blair has wallowed for much of the
time in an unusual amount of political space. Now he has very little political
space in which to address the most daunting challenge of all. He once described
his historic objective as ending Britain's ambiguous relationship with Europe.
It would have been a tough assignment when most of the electorate and quite a
lot of the media assumed he walked on water. The assignment is incomparably
tougher now he struggles to stay afloat.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              293 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS 2004: TORIES CAN FIND A COMFORT BLANKET IN THESE RESULTS;
 MY OWN UKIP VOTE WAS DESIGNED TO SEND A MESSAGE TO TONY BLAIR WHEN HE

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 881 words


So the voters have spoken. But trying to fathom what they have said is a
nightmare. I defy anyone in the Labour, Liberal Democrat, Conservative or UK
Independence Party to make sense of the five promiscuous crosses that I cast in
London last Thursday. I can barely make sense of them myself. I suspect I was
not the only such voter. In some areas, it is clear that some electors probably
voted for the pro-Europe Liberal Democrats for the council elections, but must
have also voted, in the same breath and at the same time, for UKIP in the
European elections. Try working that one out.

My own UKIP vote was designed not to fire a shot across the bows of Michael
Howard, but rather to send a message to Tony Blair when he goes to Brussels
later this week to negotiate the fine print of the new European constitution.
Face me with an actual referendum question, "Do you want to leave the EU?" and
my pen would waver. But when Labour spokespersons appear on election programmes
making trite points about how badly the Tories did - "We only lost 6 per cent of
our vote; you lost 8 per cent: nah, nah, nah-nah nah" - they miss the point
about just how much their policy of greater European integration is currently
opposed by most voters.

All parties, particularly Labour and Tory, should recognise that this was an
opportunity for the humble voter to kick the ruling class. The more attacks that
were made on UKIP's sitting MEPs for refusing to turn up for meetings and their
poor voting record in Strasbourg, the more attractive they appeared to voters.
Westminster has become so detached from the voter that most electors preferred a
myriad of alternatives as battering rams against the establishment. Half the
voters rejected the two main parties - a new record for psephologists.

The dilemma for the Tories appears to be particularly awkward. Most of the
advice is to ignore the result and make no response to the UKIP vote. On
balance, I agree with that, although it is quite difficult to say publicly that
voters who appeared, in large numbers, to want to leave the European Union
should be ignored. Such an attitude verges on the arrogant and lends further
credibility to the notion that the political classes are not listening to the
people.

But providing Mr Howard prefaces his speeches and statements with courteous
acknowledgments to "take account" of voters' concerns, there is no need for him
to depart from the formula he adopted at the start of his leadership. What has
been more remarkable, thus far, is that Mr Howard's "live and let live" approach
has enabled him to talk about renegotiating some of Europe's common policies -
such as on fisheries - without forfeiting the goodwill of Europhiles such as
Lord Heseltine and Kenneth Clarke. Providing he can impose an iron discipline on
all his Eurosceptics, there is no reason why he should forfeit the uneasy
coalition that underpinned the early success of his leadership. Insofar as there
were blunders in the Tory campaign over the past fortnight, they were merely
tactical rather than strategic.

Mr Howard can also be reasonably certain that most of the Tory votes who went to
UKIP were only temporarily borrowed last Thursday. Under the first-past-the-post
system, Eurosceptics will have to be persuaded that their continued support for
UKIP at a general election will run the risk of letting marginal-seat Labour MPs
back in. But if UKIP retains just a few per cent of its new-found support, it
does make Mr Howard's task harder.

Most polls show that, at a general election, Europe will not be the deciding
factor. Once the fallout from both the Euro elections and the outcome of the
negotiations in Brussels has subsided, the Tories should leave further comment
until the referendum on the constitution is upon us. In the meantime, there are
weightier issues that require their attention. Resolving the conundrum of how
the Tories can be the party of better public services while aspiring to reduce
taxes is likely to be of far greater concern to most voters. Hopefully,
yesterday's mini-reshuffle, bringing into the Shadow Cabinet designated
spokesmen on health and education, may help to address this conundrum.

This latter issue is far more pressing and likely to cause more internal
tensions than Europe. The YouGov poll for Sky News indicated that voters do not
put taxation at the top of their list of concerns. Public services and crime
still head the list. Oliver Letwin, the Shadow Chancellor, has exempted health
and education from any reductions in public expenditure implied by his
commitment to reduce the share the state takes in gross domestic product from 42
per cent to 40 per cent. But he will have to address the suggestion that this
will blunt the credibility of Tory policies on crime and defence. If the latter
are to be subjected to a freeze, in real terms, it is hard to see how such
commitments can sit alongside a desire to cut taxes.

The council elections should be Mr Howard's principal comfort blanket. Labour's
results in both contests were truly dreadful - recovery from mid-term blues is
not automatic and there are more reasons for Tory MPs to be cheerful, and even
more reasons for Labour MPs to be terrified.

mrbrown@pimlico.freeserve.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              294 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

LETTER: HOW EUROPE WORKS IN BRITAIN'S INTEREST

BYLINE: GRAHAM SIMMONDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 123 words


Sir: My dad loves continental Europe. He likes nothing more than setting off in
his Jaguar for the autoroutes of France; he loves the way the French look after
their town squares and the Spanish lay out their tapas.

He constantly berates this country, saying we have gone to the dogs as he talks
longingly about retiring to the Dordogne or Southern Spain. He also has a
healthy contempt for most things American (such as McDonalds, George Bush and
brash language).

He has also just voted UKIP. So many people in this country love Europe's
civilising ways over our own and America's, and yet they want out of the
European venture. In truth, do they have any idea what they really want?

GRAHAM SIMMONDS

London SW4

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              295 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

LETTER: HOW EUROPE WORKS IN BRITAIN'S INTEREST

BYLINE: ALAN PAVELIN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 71 words


Sir: It is depressing that Labour leaders have been expressing pleasure at the
inroads made by UKIP into the Tory vote. UKIP scapegoats the EU (by implication,
all non-British Europeans) for the ills of society. The Labour Party should
eschew the temptation to encourage Tory deserters to UKIP, and Michael Howard
should denounce them as strongly as he recently denounced the BNP.

ALAN PAVELIN

Chislehurst, Kent

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              296 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

POLL-AXE CALL FOR SNP CHIEF;
 SWINNEY EURO DISASTER

BYLINE: RICHARD GRAY

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 403 words

HIGHLIGHT: HANDS UP: Swinney tries to put brave face on his party's flop


SNP leader John Swinney was last night facing calls to quit after a disastrous
result in the European elections.

The party failed to put a dent in Labour's lead despite the government's
plummeting popularity.

And the Nats even saw a slide in their own support, from 27.5 per cent to 19.6
per cent - only slightly ahead of the Tories.

It is the third time the SNP has lost ground in an election under Mr Swinney's
leadership.

The SNP leader put a brave face on the Euro poll - but party rebels stepped up
pressure on him to resign.

MSP Campbell Martin, who was suspended from the party for attacking the
leadership, insisted it was time for a change.

He said: "I think John Swinney should have the bottle to stand up and admit his
failure. "The reality is people did not vote for the SNP because the SNP did not
give them anything to vote for.

"This was a very, very poor result but not totally unexpected."

The Nats managed to hang on to two seats in the European Parliament despite a
slump in their share of the votes.

Labour and the Tories emerged with two MEPs each in Scotland while the Liberal
Democrats secured the final Scottish seat.

Turn-out for the election, at 30 per cent, was better than expected, and higher
than the rest of the UK.

Labour's vote was down from 29 per cent to 26.3 per cent and the Tories won 17.7
per cent.

The Lib Dems increased their share of the vote to 13.1 per cent. Mr Swinney
insisted that he would lead the SNP into the next General Election.

Amazingly he hailed his party's showing as "creditable" but blamed its failute
to do better on internal divisions.

Mr Swinney said: "It doesn't make it easy for people to vote for us if we are
divided internally.

"What I am determined to do is to make sure the SNP focuses on winning
electorally and being successful in the forthcoming Westminster election.

"This is a creditable result for the SNP - we achieved our major objective which
was to hold our two-seat position."

Scottish Tory leader David McLetchie claimed his party would overtake the Nats
as the main opposition north of the border.

And he insisted they would have beaten them if they had not lost votes to the
UKIP.

He said: "We are now breathing down the neck of the SNP - roll on the general
election."

Labour lead candidate David Martin added: "This is a disaster for John Swinney
and the SNP."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              297 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

EURO POLL DISASTER: NEW LABOUR.. OR NO LABOUR;
 BLAIR'S CHALLENGE TO DISGRUNTLED MPS

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 335 words

HIGHLIGHT: GAUNTLET: Blair


TONY BLAIR last night faced down his disgruntled MPs, telling them the choice
was to keep the "New Labour coalition" or risk losing the next election.

The Prime Minister threw down the gauntlet after admitting the local and
European election results were "not pleasant" for Labour.

But in defiant mood he made it clear he will not be pushed off his modernising
path despite protests from traditionalists.

Mr Blair spoke after a Eurosceptic tide swept across the EU in the vote for the
European Parliament.

Labour's share tumbled five points to 23 per cent while the Tories dropped nine
to 27 per cent.

The hardline Ukip surged nine points to 16 per cent. The Liberal Democrats
trailed in fourth on 15 per cent, only two per cent up.

Several MPs at the meeting pleaded with Mr Blair with stay as leader. One said:
"When people say you should go, that is the last thing we want."

He was asked by at least one if he will apologise for the false basis for war in
Iraq.

Sources said he "robustly" explained the Government should not apologise as
Saddam was in breach of UN resolutions and had used weapons of mass destruction
before.

But he admitted: "The public need to know we are controlling events, not events
controlling us." And he said Iraq "was an issue" at the elections. Mr Blair
described the results as "mixed" but insisted the voters had "no desire" for a
Tory government.

The PM said: "We have got to have confidence in our arguments, not just hold our
nerve, and we will win.

"We have a great story to tell, we have the right agenda for the country."

He added: "We have to connect with supporters old and new. We need to have a
forward agenda which meets the coalition we had in 1997 and 2001."

Mr Blair laid out details for a radical agenda for the next year in the run-up
to the election He said the focus will be on health, education, crime and
antisocial behaviour and transport, which will become flagship Bills in the
Queen's Speech this year.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              298 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

EURO POLL DISASTER: EX TORIES VOTE UKIP

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 78 words


NEARLY half the voters who helped the UK Independence Party to its stunning
European election success had abandoned the Tories, a survey found last night.

According to an ICM poll for tomorrow's Guardian, 45 per cent of those who voted
Ukip backed the Conservatives under William Hague's leadership at the last
General Election in 2001.

The poll also showed that 20 per cent of Ukip voters were ex-Labour supporters
and 11 per cent had backed the Lib Dems.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              299 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

EURO POLL DISASTER: ROBERT KILROY SULKS

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA WILLIAMS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 111 words

HIGHLIGHT: ROW: Kilroy-Silk in London yesterday


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk threw a temper tantrum on his night of election glory.

The newly-elected UK Independence Party MEP was furious after being kept waiting
for a pass into the vote count.

He yelled: "This is ridiculous. I'm not standing for this."

Kilroy-Silk then stormed off to watch England's Euro 2004 match against France
before returning to the leisure centre in Northampton.

An onlooker said: "He threw a massive strop and made a right fool of himself."

Later, when asked what he would do in the European Parliament, Kilroy-Silk said:
"Wreck it and expose the waste and corruption which is eroding our independence
and our sovereignty."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              300 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

IT'S NEW LABOUR ..OR NO LABOUR

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 2 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 303 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEFIANT: Mr Blair


TONY BLAIR last night faced down his MPs, telling them the choice was to keep
the "New Labour coalition" or risk losing the next election.

The Prime Minister threw down the gauntlet after admitting the local and
European election results were "not pleasant". He made it clear he will not be
pushed off his modernising path - the day after a Euro-sceptic tide swept across
the EU.

Labour's share of the vote in the European election tumbled five points to 23
per cent while the Tories dropped nine to 27 per cent. The hardline Ukip surged
nine points to 16 per cent and the Lib Dems got 15 per cent, two points up.

Some MPs at the meeting with Mr Blair pleaded for him to stay as leader. He was
asked, though, by at least one if he will apologise for the false basis for the
war in Iraq.

Sources said he "robustly" explained Saddam was in breach of UN resolutions and
had used weapons of mass destruction before.

But he admitted: "The public need to know we are controlling events, not events
controlling us."

He said Iraq "was an issue" at the elections but insisted the voters had "no
desire" for a Tory government. The PM said: "We have to connect with supporters
old and new. We need to have a forward agenda which meets the coalition we had
in 1997 and 2001."

Mr Blair laid out details for a radical agenda in the run-up to the general
election. The focus will be on health, education, crime and antisocial behaviour
and transport, which will become flagship Bills in the Queen's Speech this year.

At least Mr Blair was not alone in his European election nightmare. Leaders in
Germany, France and Italy took a battering with only Spain out of the major
countries bucking the wave of protest.

Their new left-wing government beat the Conservatives with 44 per cent of the
vote.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              301 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

KILROY SULK

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA WILLIAMS

SECTION: 2 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 69 words

HIGHLIGHT: TEMPER: Kilroy-Silk stormed away from count


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk threw a tantrum on his election glory night - after being
made to wait for a pass into the vote count.

The new Ukip Euro MP yelled: "This is ridiculous. I'm not standing for this."

He then stormed off to watch England's Euro 2004 match against France before
returning to the leisure centre in Northampton. An onlooker said: "He threw a
strop and made a right fool of himself."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              302 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTION 2004: IT'S NEW LABOUR ..OR NO LABOUR

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 208 words


TONY BLAIR last night faced down his disgruntled MPs, telling them the choice
was to keep the "New Labour coalition" or risk losing the next election.

The Prime Minister threw down the gauntlet after admitting the local and
European election results were "not pleasant" for Labour.

But in defiant mood he made it clear he will not be pushed off his modernising
path despite protests from traditionalists.

Mr Blair spoke after a Eurosceptic tide swept across the EU in the vote for the
European Parliament. Labour's share tumbled five points to 23 per cent while the
Tories dropped nine to 27 per cent.

The hardline Ukip surged nine points to 16 per cent. The Liberal Democrats
trailed in fourth on 15 per cent, only two per cent up.

Several MPs at the meeting pleaded with Blair with stay as leader. One said:
"When people say you should go, that is the last thing we want."

He was asked by at least one if he will apologise for the false basis for war in
Iraq.

Sources said he "robustly" explained the Government should not apologise as
Saddam was in breach of UN resolutions and had used weapons of mass destruction.

But he admitted: "The public need to know we are controlling events, not events
controlling us."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              303 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTION 2004: KILROY SULKS

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY ALEXANDRA WILLIAMS

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 80 words

HIGHLIGHT: ROW: Kilroy-Silk yesterday


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk threw a temper tantrum on his night of election glory.

The newly-elected UK Independence Party MEP was furious after being kept waiting
for a pass into the vote count. He yelled: "This is ridiculous. I'm not standing
for this."

Kilroy-Silk then stormed off to watch England's Euro 2004 match against France
before returning to the leisure centre in Northampton.

An onlooker said: "He threw a massive strop and made a right fool of himself."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              304 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

VOICE OF THE DAILY MIRROR: LABOUR HAS TO CONNECT WITH VOTERS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 201 words


LABOUR MPs are understandably worried - especially those who face losing their
seats at the next election.

They look with horror at their party's pounding in last week's polls and demand
change.

They aren't the only ones who insist things cannot remain the same. They can't.
But what is not up for negotiation, as Tony Blair said yesterday, is the New
Labour project.

There is no going back to the days of Old

Labour, when being hammered in elections

was a bad habit.

That doesn't mean Mr Blair should not be looking at how to get back to his
winning ways. He must. And Labour MPs have to play their part in that.

The party has to connect again with voters. It won't do that by harking back to
the failed ideas of the past, any more than by ignoring the public's opinions.

The political situation in Britain is a mess. The Tories are being forced ever
further to the right and the extremists of the UK Independence Party and BNP -
who are two sides of the same vile coin - are gaining ground.

Only New Labour can save the country from this dangerous predicament.

But it won't unless Tony Blair gets the

support of his MPs - and listens to them and

the people.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              305 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

NESSIE'S GONE;
 EXPERTS FEAR MONSTER MAY HAVE LEFT SCOTLAND

BYLINE: LAURIE HANNA

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 554 words

HIGHLIGHT: LOCH BYE THE NOO: Gary, right, is pining for the beast; TRAVEL: Our
missing reptile


THE Loch Ness monster has gone missing - sparking fears she's fled Scotland for
good.

Sightings of the legendary beast have slumped in the last 18 months, according
to the monster's official fan club.

Just three people have seen Nessie since 2002, compared with the normal 20
sightings a year.

And experts now reckon the creature has scarpered to escape the thousands of
tourists who flock to see her each summer.

Gary Campbell, president of the Loch Ness Monster Fan Club, once insured himself
for pounds 1million against being eaten alive by the legendary beast.

But even he had to admit: "There has been an unusually low number of sightings,
all of which were made by local people.

"Historically, spottings peak during tourist season. But now it would appear
were made by local people.

"Visitors just aren't seeing anything unusual."

A spokeswoman for The Original Loch Ness Monster Visitor Centre said hi-tech
hunters may be to blame.

She said: "It certainly seems that fewer people are seeing Nessie. There has
been a lot of talk locally that the monster is staying away from tourists and
their cameras.

"More and more people are turning up with digital cameras and camcorders hoping
to catch a glimpse of the beast."

But George Edwards, who runs monster spotting cruises around the loch, said:
"The problem is, very few people report sightings for fear of being ridiculed.

"My last spotting was May 2003, which is some time ago."

Since the first modern-day sighting in the 1930s, there have been up to 20
reports of something strange lurking in Loch Ness every year. But that number
has slumped dramatically in the last three years.

Bookies William Hill traditionally hand out an annual cash prize for the best
Nessie sighting.

It was won in 2002 by Glasgow postman Bobbie Pollock, after he captured video
film of something moving beneath the waters.

But last year William Hill held on to the prize fund - because there were no
entries.

Last year, the high priest of Britain's White Witches blessed the Loch Ness
monster in a bid to keep her safe from hunters.

Kevin Carlyon visited Inverness to wish the monster a long life.

And, yesterday, he said: "Nessie does seem to have vanished without trace."

But he added: "I put a protective spell on the beast so maybe that's why no one
has seen it."

Experts at magazine Fortean Times, which monitors paranormal happenings and the
unexplained, said spooky spottings had declined across the UK as a whole.

A Fortean spokesman said: "It is probably the case that there has been a
fall-off in reported paranormal activity

"We think this may be because the ordinary world is so much more threatening,
and interesting, than it was a few years ago."

LOCHING HIGH AND LOW...

NESSIE has upped sticks in search of fun and games. Here's a few ideas of where
she might be:

The mythical monster has had a makeover and a sex change and entered this year's
Big Brother house.

Nessie has swum away in search of warmer water and is catching a few matches at
Euro 2004 in Portugal.

She's been wrongly released by Reliance.

She's living the high life in London since winning ITV's Pop Idol.

Down south using her star status to campaign for the UK Independence Party in
the European elections.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              306 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 15, 2004

THERESA OUT AFTER TORY REJIG

BYLINE: Nic Cecil Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 177 words


SENIOR Tory Theresa May was demoted yesterday in a mini-reshuffle in the wake of
the euro elections.

The former party chairman was given the boot by leader Michael Howard after Tory
gains were dented by the UK Independence Party's surge.

She was moved from Shadow Environment Secretary to the new post of Shadow Family
Secretary. Health and Education spokesman Tim Yeo was also demoted into Mrs
May's former job.

Andrew Lansley is promoted to Health and Tim Collins to Education as Mr Howard
expanded his Shadow Cabinet to 14.

Panic

Shadow Work and Pensions Secretary David Willetts handed his policy co
ordination role to the party's rising star David Cameron.

Tory chairman Liam Fox stressed voters disillusioned with Labour want workable
ideas from his party to boost hospitals, schools and transport.

He said: "Our refreshed Shadow Cabinet will bring forward details of our
alternative policies for public services."

But Labour chairman Ian McCartney said the reshuffle "shows panic".

Blair To Defy EU

- Pages 8&9


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              307 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 15, 2004

TAKING HEED

SECTION: THE SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 277 words


IT would be an unwise Prime Minister who did not pay heed to a groundswell of
public protest.

Today, Tony Blair holds his monthly Press conference at No10 Downing Street.

It is the perfect opportunity for him to explain to voters how he is taking on
board what they have said at the polls about Europe.

He knows that he has no mandate to sign up to the European Constitution.

When he meets EU leaders in Brussels on Thursday and Friday, he must tell them
that the majority of British people want to be part of an EU that is a trading
market, not a political and economic union.

We wish to remain an independent, sovereign state.

We do not want to travel one inch further down the slippery slope of European
integration.

The Sun repeats that it opposes UKIP's policy of leaving the EU.

But we understand why so many people have had enough of the lunacy of the
fisheries and agricultural policies, the mountain of red tape which swamps
business, the European Court and the human rights laws.

Bad joke

Across Europe, the polls have seen a swing towards the right of centre,
eurosceptic parties.

Germany, France and Spain have seen strong anti-government votes which greatly
lessen the ruling elite's claim to know what is best for their people.

In truth, this week's EU summit is a joke. A bad one.

France's President Chirac and Germany's Chancellor Schroeder will try to stitch
up a deal on the Constitution that no one wants.

Blair would be unwise to go along with them.

He can't agree to anything he can't win in a referendum.

Any sensible view of public opinion will tell him that amounts to not a lot.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              308 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 15, 2004

BLAIR 'WILL BOYCOTT EU SUPERSTATE'

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh Political Editor

SECTION: VOTE SHOCK FORCES RETHINK OVER CONSTITUTION

LENGTH: 981 words


Tories 27% down 9% 27 seats. Labour 23% down 5% 19 seats. UKIP 16% up 9% 12
seats. Lib dems 15% up 2% 12 seats

TONY Blair is ready to torpedo this week's EU superstate summit after his
thrashing by angry voters.

The shell-shocked PM will boycott the EU Constitution and refuse to sign it on
Friday unless major changes are made, aides claim.

Mr Blair will demand action on tax, welfare and the draconian Charter of
Fundamental Rights.

A No10 spokesman said: "I am not preparing you for failure, but I am not
preparing you for success either."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw rammed the message home at a meeting of EU
ministers.

Control

He said: "People want to see the EU work more efficiently with more control by
national governments. That is what this Constitution seeks to achieve, but it
has to be right on issues that concern us."

Mr Blair will point out the risk from hardline parties like UKIP to the EU
unless it tears up the blueprint for the federal superstate.

Irish Premier Bertie Ahern, who chairs this week's Brussels summit, has worked
frantically behind the scenes to try to win UK support.

A government insider said of the pro-Constitution camp: "They have made a number
of moves so that we know they understand our position. But it is either not
enough, or they have done nothing.

"They don't understand how much we need. We haven't got enough on tax yet and we
want guarantees that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will not take powers from
our courts."

But the blueprint could crash without Britain's help.

Poland is ready to veto any move which fails to give it similar voting rights to
those enjoyed by Germany and France.

Mr Blair was rocked by an explosion of voter fury in last week's EU and local
elections.

He has brought forward his monthly Press conference to today to address
questions over his leadership, the loss of hundreds of council seats and the
revolt over Europe.

Critics fear Mr Blair will talk tough in Brussels in order to claim a propaganda
victory when other EU leaders cave in. But there are signs that other EU leaders
have finally woken up to the scale of public resentment towards Europe.

They licked their wounds last night as anti-EU parties like Britain's UK
Independence Party, which grabbed 12 seats, marched into the Strasbourg
Parliament.

UKIP quadrupled its number of seats from three as they enjoyed a nine per cent
surge in support to 16 per cent.

It won over both Labour and Tory supporters disgruntled at Brussels' power
grabs.

Despite losing eight seats, the Tories remain the biggest British party in the
Brussels Parliament with 27 seats, with support down nine per cent to 27 per
cent.

And Labour are left with 19 seats after shedding six. Tony Blair's party picked
up just 23 per cent of the vote. The Liberal Democrats took 12 seats, with their
share of the vote edging up two points to 15 per cent.

UKIP chief Robert Kilroy-Silk pledged to "wreck" the European Parliament after
he landed a seat in the East Midlands.

He vowed to "expose it for the waste and the corruption and the way it is
eroding our independence and our sovereignty".

The balance of power in the parliament has shifted dramatically, with centre
right MEPs' 276 seats meaning they outnumber socialists.

And they began flexing their muscles immediately by insisting a conservative
must be chosen as the new European Commission President when the vacancy is
filled this week.

Result

Former Belgian PM Wilfried Martens said: "This appointment must give regard to
the result of the European election."

Ruling parties across Europe paid the price for EU arrogance.

The German and French governments - where voters protested against rising
unemployment, sluggish economies and painful reforms - were punished.

Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's Social Democrats slumped to their worst
performance of the post-war era, taking just 21.5 per cent of the vote.

Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer confessed: "We have to draw the consequences
from the elections."

In France, President Jacques Chirac's party scraped just 16.64 per cent. Iraq
was an issue in Italy, where PM Silvio Berlusconi's conservatives got 21 per
cent.

CYPRUS STRONG support for parties who reject UN plan to re-unify isle. GREECE.
RULING pro-EU conservatives buck trend to win 43 per cent. ITALY BERLUSCONI'S
ruling party win just 21%, downfrom25. GERMANY VOTERS reject Schroeder. His
party's worst result since WWII. SWEDEN ANTI-EU party storms to third place with
14% of vote. FINLAND GOVT feel squeeze. Main opposition party get largest cut of
vote. AUSTRIA VOTERS flock to eurosceptic Hans Peter Martin. He takes 14%.
SLOVENIA WIDESPREAD apathy. Turnout just 28%. Victory for opposition. MALTA
PRO-EU rulers the losers. Opposition take four out of five seats. IRELAND VOTERS
lash govt. Ruling Fianna Fail's worst losses in a century. N'LANDS 2 MEPs for
new Transparent Europe party, led by eurosceptic. DENMARK EUROSCEPTIC govt lose
two of five seats to opposition. BELGIUM GOVT gets 13 seats, up two; top EU
turnout at 90%. L'BOURG ANOTHER of the few countries where voters backed govt in
poll. FRANCE VOTERS reject Chirac. Socialists trounce his UMP and net 33 seats.
PORTUGAL ANTI-WAR socialists slam govt with 43% of vote. SPAIN OPPOSITION almost
beat socialist govt. Just 2 points in it. CZECH REP ANTI-EU Democrats pick up
nine of 24 seats in huge victory . ESTONIA PRO-EU Democratics seize three of six
seats, but low turnout. LATVIA GOVT take a caning as opposition seizes four
seats. LITHUANIA CENTRE-LEFT party heavily beat govt with anti-Brussels message.
POLAND TWO anti-EU parties celebrate getting 30%. Govt comes FIFTH. SLOVAK REP
APATHY rules. Lowest turnout at 17%. Four parties in dead heat. HUNGARY ANOTHER
govt feels voters' wrath with 9 seats to opposition 12


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              309 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 15, 2004

TIME TO RAISE YOUR GAME, MICHAEL

BYLINE: Richard Littlejohn

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 632 words


IT wasn't all bad news. England may have lost to France on the football pitch.

But there was a much better result at the polls, where the Euro fanatics were
routed.

UKIP surged into the box with a late run which would have done Wayne Rooney
credit.

Labour and the Lib Dems were left flat on their backsides. When the final
whistle went, parties opposed to further European integration were

triumphant.

The success of UKIP makes it even more difficult for Tony Blair to sign away
more of Britain's sovereignty, much as he'd like to.

But the Tories did their best to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory with a
Steven Gerrard-style back pass.

Michael Howard's intemperate attack on UKIP as a bunch of swivel-eyed extremists
alienated millions of potential Tory voters.

Plenty of Conservatives also believe that Britain's interests are best served
outside the EU. Opinion polls show that half the country feels the same.

But that's not what's on offer from any of the mainstream parties. In

reality, the kind of Europe most

people in Britain could live with is a free-trade zone with friendly

co-operation on a range of other issues.

But they don't want to be ruled by Europe.

Howard understands that, which is why he says he'd renegotiate our terms of
membership.

But that's not on the table, either. Not yet.

Europe's leaders aren't going to give an inch if they think that eventually
we'll go along with whatever they want - just as we have for the past 30 years.

Only if they think we are serious about using the ultimate sanction of complete
withdrawal will they ever take us seriously.

And that's why the UKIP vote is so important this time round.

Results from all over Europe, including those countries which have only joined
recently, demonstrate that

people are disillusioned with the direction of the entire European project.

But without a shock to the system, the arrogant Euro elite won't take any
notice.

They will carry on regardless with their grand design to build a country called
Europe, fit for bloated bureaucrats and corrupt politicians.

And the only realistic way of

stopping that happening, or at least preventing Britain becoming a part of it,
is the election of a robust Conservative government.

On these latest results, that's not going to happen. The best we can hope for is
that we end up with some kind of Lib-Lab pact next time.

And given that the Lib Dems are even more fanatical about Europe than Blair,
that would be even worse than the current state of affairs.

For the Tories to stand a chance, they've got to reach out to their

natural supporters.

UKIP won't be a force at the next general election. But the people who voted for
them will. Slagging them off as nasty Little Englanders will hardly endear them
to the Conservative Party.

The danger is that, just like Johnny Major, Howard goes out of his way to appeal
to people who are never going to vote for him in a month of Sundays.

Recently, he displayed appalling judgment in writing a piece for the Left wing,
anti-war Independent, attacking Tony Blair's closeness to America.

He then seemed surprised when the Indy exploited it all over Page One. What the
hell was he thinking of?

There wasn't a single Tory vote in it, any more than there is in

rubbishing UKIP.

Add the 17 per cent UKIP share to the 27 per cent Tory share and you get 44 per
cent - enough to form a government with a proper majority.

It's not that simple, of course, because Labour will bounce back. But it's a
basis for negotiation.

Blair has taken one hell of a

beating over the past few days.

But unless Howard raises his game, in the match which really matters, the Tories
will be the big losers.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              310 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 15, 2004

IT'S THREE CUFFINGS IN A ROW FOR JOHN

BYLINE: Andrew Nicoll

SECTION: BACKLASH IN BALLOT FOR SNP ANDCONSTITUTION; COMMENTARY; OPINION

LENGTH: 426 words


JOHN SWINNEY has done something William Hague failed to do - led his party to
three election drubbings in a row.

Swinney was cuffed in the General Election of 2001 where the Nats lost seats and
votes, cuffed in the Scottish elections of 2003 - where the Nats lost seats and
votes - and now cuffed in the Euro elections, where the Nats lost votes again.

They held on to their two Euro seats - just.

William Hague's record as leader of the Tories was considerably better but he
quit while he was behind.

John Swinney, on the other hand, is making it clear he's in for the long haul
even if it lasts all the way to the bottom.

When George Robertson was Shadow Scottish Secretary, he predicted that
devolution would kill the SNP "stone dead".

Well, they're not dead yet, but the best you can say is they're on life support
and the family has been summoned to the bedside.

Their vote has been in a persistent vegetative state for years. But yesterday
party spin doctors were insisting that, once again, this is the SNP's
greatest-ever election result.

It's as if they were standing there in the Intensive Care Ward and pleading:
"Look, his fingers moved. Squeeze my hand if you can hear me!"

They whimpered that the SNP topped the polls in eight Scottish constituencies -
but the Tories won in 12.

Fiasco

Even in North Tayside, Swinney's home base, the Tories were only 1,200 votes
behind - only the 1,700 people who voted UKIP saved Swinney from humiliation.

In spite of a war that brought tens of thousands of protesters on to the
streets, the Nats saw Labour's lead widen yesterday.

In spite of a tidal wave of bad publicity that overwhelmed Jack McConnnell after
his D-Day fiasco, they couldn't touch him.

In spite of everything, Swinney refuses to acknowledge there's a problem.

Yesterday he was blindly insisting the SNP has secured its place as Scotland's
second party, but Germany secured second place in two successive wars. So what?

Although turn-out is up since last time, they have lost 35,000 votes since the
last Euro elections. They are 70,000 votes behind Labour and just 20,000 ahead
of the Tories.

Alarm bells should be ringing someplace but the only people daring to question
Swinney's leadership are the usual fringe of losers, bitter about missing out on
promotion.

Swinney won the last leadership challenge by a mile with over 80 per cent of the
vote.

Nobody can kick him out but he loves the SNP very much indeed - and he may yet
decide to prove it by giving her up.


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              311 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 15, 2004

NATS IN A NO-SWIN SITUATION

BYLINE: Andrew Nicoll Scottish Political Reporter

SECTION: BACKLASH IN BALLOT FOR SNP AND CONSTITUTION

LENGTH: 470 words


Party battered in Euro elections

SNP leader John Swinney was under pressure last night after the Nats' share of
the vote slumped at the Euro elections.

The party trailed Labour by a massive 70,000 votes, stretching the gap between
the two parties to FOUR TIMES what it was at the last Euro poll five years ago.

Despite his pledge to make them the biggest party in Scotland, Mr Swinney saw
the SNP slide seven per cent behind their rivals.

Labour managed to pull in more than 26 per cent of the vote in Scotland -
compared to the Nats' 19.6 per cent and the Tories' 17.7 per cent.

Last night Tory leader David McLetchie slammed the SNP's poor performance and
claimed they were no longer the opposition party in Scotland.

He said: "Last year, I set our party the target of overtaking the SNP.

Disaster

"This result is yet another disaster for the so-called official opposition and
all around Scotland people are realising that the Tories, not the SNP, provide
the only credible alternative to Labour.

"I am delighted with our result in Scotland. We are now breathing down the neck
of the SNP - roll on the General Election."

Last night Mr Swinney refused to admit the election had been a disaster for his
party.

He said: "This is a credible result for the SNP. We achieved our major objective
which was to hold our two seats.

"The challenge for the party is to overtake Labour, which is the challenge I set
in this election.

"We remain focused on that challenge and our message to the people of Scotland
is this - you can punish the Labour Party in a dozen different ways, but you can
only beat the Labour Party by voting SNP."

Mr Swinney added: "What I am determined to do is make sure the SNP focuses on
winning electorally and being successful in the forthcoming Westminster
election."

Scotland's seats in the European Parliament were cut from eight to seven -
giving two to Labour, two to the Conservatives, two to the SNP and one to the
Lib Dems.

And Labour missed out on keeping their third spot in the parliament by just 894
votes.

Labour lead candidate David Martin said: "This is a disaster for John Swinney
and the SNP.

"He staked his reputation on overtaking us in share of the vote and he has
miserably failed to do that. Obviously we are very pleased that we have
maintained our position."

The Scottish Socialist Party failed to win a seat, pulling in just over five per
cent of the vote - less than the Greens and the UK Independence Party who
scooped 6.68 per cent.

Party leader Tommy Sheridan said: "It represents progress for the SSP but this
may have been an election too far at this stage."

Turnout for the election was far higher than predicted at nearly a third, up six
per cent on figures for the last vote five years ago.


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              312 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 15, 2004

DEAR SUN

SECTION: LETTER

LENGTH: 48 words


THE UK Independence Party vote in the Euro elections is a massive slap in the
face for Tony Blair. He is supposed to be bringing us a deal we can vote for in
a referendum.

This result proves he doesn't have to bother - we don't want a Euro superstate.

JOHN TAYLOR

Perth


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              313 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Gravy train is spurned for HP sauce

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 569 words


THE UK Independence Party held a celebratory press conference yesterday. It
began on the patch of grass that is College Green, across from Parliament. By
11.30am a scrum of photographers had entirely surrounded eight men of mature
years wearing suits.

No one who was anyone was there. It was like a board meeting for Anonymous Inc.

Were these the new MEPs for the most exciting political movement in Britain? Or
were they a bunch of grumpy old men on their way to the cricket? You pick for
the UKIP.

Someone produced a bottle of fizz. I suspected the worst. Was this champagne
from the land of cheese-eating surrender monkeys? "No! English sparkling wine!"
I was told. The bottle was sprayed over the photographers before it was handed
to one of the new MEPs, who promptly dropped it. A gaggle of blonde women
loitered behind the scrum. One ran over and gave me a document entitled
Memorandum to: The Fourth Estate, on the occasion of the elections to the
European Parliament, June 2004.

What's this? "It's a speech by my Dad," she said.

And you are? "Zara," she said with a lovely smile. It turns out that Zara is 19
and the daughter of Lord Pearson of Rannoch, who lost the Tory whip after
backing the UKIP. He is near by, giving interviews about how Parliament could
turn into a rubber stamp. A minute later another blonde sidled up. "I'm
Malcolm's wife, Caroline," she explained. Malcolm?

This turns out to be Lord Pearson as well. Is the whole family here then? "Oh
yes, three-line whip," she said. "I was actually rather keen to play tennis."

There was a small rumour that Joanie (Collins) might show up. This was followed
by an even tinier rumour that Victoria Beckham could be a secret supporter. And
then, larger than a rumour and much more reptilian, the handsome form that is
Robert Kilroy-Silk slid into view. He was immediately given his own scrum.

Kilroy was here and so the press conference could begin. The Anonymous Men began
to move, en masse.

"Malcolm, will you show us where we are going?" asked one.

Indeed he would. Malcolm led us into a small hot room in a nearby building for
parliamentary offices. To one side of the room was a grand piano which, sadly,
no one was playing. Someone tried to mount a lurid pink and yellow UKIP sign
over a large oil painting of a bewigged man identified in the nameplate as
Peregrine, Duke of Ancaster. The attempt failed.

The top table held three men, including Kilroy. Behind them stood the Anonymous
Men. The room was heaving with about 70 journalists.

The room's micro-climate became tropical. Everyone was sweating except Kilroy
(reptiles lack sweat glands, of course). He was trying to be inclusive while
relishing every limelit moment.

What would the UKIP do at the European Parliament?

"Wreck it!" yelped Kilroy.

The room laughed. Kilroy glowed.

"Our job is to go there and to turn round and say: Look, this is what they do .
.

. This is how they all go on this kind of gravy train and spend their time in
restaurants."

He announced that when he went to Brussels he did not want to get "bogged down"
in restaurants. I realised this was an important new policy.

The UKIP was now anti- European and anti-restaurant. By lunchtime, Kilroy
revealed that he would be taking cheese and HP sauce sandwiches to Brussels. Up
with Britain! Down with hors d'oeuvre! The future is brown bag.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              314 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Peer of the Year

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 61 words


LORD Strathclyde, Tory Leader in the Lords, has again been nominated for Peer of
the Year by the respected House Magazine. The nomination came despite the
unfortunate mishap of five Tory peers having the whip withdrawn after making
vaguely positive noises about the UK Independence Party, but that setback was an
aberration for the party's jovial puppeteer.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              315 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Deflated SNP poised for a palace coup

BYLINE: Angus Macleod, Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 1

LENGTH: 763 words


THE Scottish National Party was last night facing the prospect of a major
internal crisis after senior Nationalist figures urged John Swinney to step down
as leader in the wake of another dismal election performance.

The knives came out for Mr Swinney after the third disappointing result for the
party since he became leader four years ago.

Influential Nationalist figures said that it was time "to stop the rot" and that
if Mr Swinney would not step down voluntarily before the party's annual
conference in September, he would face a bruising challenge from colleagues that
he would not win.

The behind-the-scenes post-mortem in senior Nationalist ranks began within hours
of it becoming clear that while the SNP had held on to two European Parliament
seats in Scotland, it had seen its share of the vote plummet by 7.5 per cent to
below 20 per cent.

The Times understands that key party figures were in contact with each other
yesterday, as the scale of the SNP disappointment became clear. They discussed
the best way of bringing home to Mr Swinney their message that his time as
leader was up.

They indicated that while they would keep their comments private for the moment,
they are prepared to go public "within days" if Mr Swinney does not indicate
soon that he accepts that he has not "cut the mustard" and is prepared to make
way for a new leader.

However, Mr Swinney appeared to be digging in his heels last night with his
spokesman making clear that he had no intention of standing down. "John won a
mandate from the party only last year and has said he is in it for the long
term.

We have no one telling us what they appear to be telling you", a spokesman told
The Times.

Mr Swinney himself said after the result was declared in Edinburgh that the
party's performance was "creditable" because it had held on to the No 2 spot in
Scottish politics.

He warned his party that it was in danger of ruining its electoral chances by
appearing divided.

"One of the things the SNP has to think long and hard about is whether the
public support political parties that present themselves as being internally
divided", Mr Swinney, who beat off a leadership challenge last year, added.

While Mr Swinney has faced criticism in the past few months, mainly from
"fundamentalist" MSP rebels such as Campbell Martin, those involved in
discussing his future as leader yesterday could be descibed until now as having
been supportive of him.

One said: "I simply do not think it is possible for John to continue in these
circumstances. Given what has happened, the prospect of next year's Westminster
elections is terrifying."

"The party might be divided for a few months by a fight for the leadership but
there is greater good here and that is to stop the rot. At the moment, under
John, nice man though he may be, there is no strategy in place to do that and we
are simply drifting downwards.."

Mr Swinney failed in his stated ambition of beating Labour in terms of share of
the vote in the Euro poll in Scotland with Labour winning 26.4 per cent, 2.3 per
cent down on 1999, and the Nationalists, at 19.7 per cent, falling 7.5 per cent.

Both Labour and the SNP, however, won two seats -a drop of one for Labour
because the number of MEPs from Scotland has been reduced to seven.

However, Labour was only 894 short of holding on to its third seat in the
European Parliament at the expense of the Scottish Tories, who also finished
with two seats. One seat went to the Liberal Democrats.

This meant that David Martin and Catherine Stihler were re-elected to the
European Parliament for Labour, Ian Hudghton and Alyn Smith for the SNP; Struan
Stevenson and John Purvis for the Tories, and Elspeth Attwooll for the Liberal
Democrats.

The big surprise of the campaign in Scotland was the turnout -30.7 per cent, 6
per cent higher than in 1999, and far higher than pundits had predicted.

Another surprise was the performance of the UK Independence Party, which came
from nowhere in 1999 to achieve 6.68 per cent of the votes in Scotland this
time, a whisker behind the Greens at 6.75 per cent.

The Tories achieved a respectable 17.7 per cent, down 2 per cent, but probably
would have done better and might even have won second place had it not been for
the UKIP. The Liberal Democrats did better than any of the other main parties,
scoring 13.06 per cent, three points up on 1999.

Tommy Sheridan's Scottish Socialist Party came well short of its goal of winning
a Euro seat, achieving just 5.2 per cent of the vote.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              316 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Stark message for Swinney and party stuck in the mire

BYLINE: Angus MacLeod

SECTION: Features; Scotland; 10

LENGTH: 599 words


AS British nationalism, in the shape of the UK Independence Party, is on the
rise, Scottish nationalism, in the form of the SNP, seems to be in the grip of
an inexorable decline. One commentator yesterday described the party's European
election performance as "calamitous". He was exaggerating, but not by much.

Yet the SNP prefers to inhabit a parallel political universe rather than face
the unpalatable facts. As the Scottish picture became clear yesterday, SNP spin
doctors pointed out that Labour, whose share of the vote fell by just over 2 per
cent, had experienced its worst European result. It was like a someone seeing
his house burn down while pointing out that his neighbours' curtains could do
with a clean.

In politics all is relative and when you consider that the SNP's share fell by
7.5 per cent on 1999, that it polled 37,000 fewer votes than last time on a
higher turnout, that it just escaped the ignominy of coming third behind the
Tories and that its share fell below 20 per cent for the first time in two
decades, then there is only one possible conclusion.

The SNP under John Swinney is going nowhere. It is mired in a comfort zone of
permanent opposition, its strategy of playing down its unique selling point of
independence for fear of scaring the voters is not working (and anyway, these
days the Greens and the Scottish Socialists are stealing the SNP's independence
clothes) and Mr Swinney is fast becoming the Michael Foot de nos jours in terms
of political effectivenes.

Every election Mr Swinney has fought as leader, since 2001, has resulted in a
rebuff from the voters. His empty boast before the Euro campaign that his target
was to beat Labour for the biggest share of the vote now looks like the worst
kind of "pay attention to me" grand-standing.

Yes, the SNP kept its two Euro seats but it is a mark of the lack of political
reality gripping the party, that yesterday it was clutching at that straw for
dear life, as if the real message of this election didn't matter. Too many
Scottish voters in the age of devolution simply no longer see the point of the
Swinney led SNP.

Something has to happen soon in the SNP to get the party out of its present
travails. Yesterday, as we report elsewhere today, the ground was being prepared
for a palace revolution. Such behind-the-scenes moves are not treachery, simply
a recognition that paralysis is not an option.

For the rest, Labour in Scotland largely escaped the punishment the party
received in England. Labour's late campaign strategy was to target proven voters
and convince them that if they were not going to go out and vote for the party,
then they should not vote for anyone else. It appears to have worked.

The Tories have most cause to grin. Although on a much smaller scale than in
England, the party was also hit in Scotland by the UKIP factor. If there had
been no UKIP, the Tories could have come second in Scotland, thus marking
another milestone in their journey of rehabilitation, instead of having to
settle for holding on to their two seats.

The Liberal Democrats had a robust election, increasing their vote share by more
than 3 per cent. The strategy of targeting their heartlands has helped them
again.

The Scottish Greens and the Scottish Socialist Party appear to have hit
something of an electoral glass ceiling for the moment, both limited to a 1 per
cent rise in their respective votes.

The UKIP performance was muted in Scotland compared to England and damaged only
the Tories, although it outpolled the SSP and matched the Greens.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              317 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Why I have championed the UK's independence

BYLINE: Dick Morris

SECTION: Features; 18

LENGTH: 1374 words


Beyond the questions of sovereignty lies the key choice of government by
democracy or bureaucracy.

DEMOCRACY is like water in that it finds its own level. When the political
parties fail to articulate the grievances of the voters and conspire to maintain
the status quo, public opinion will find a way to be heard.

On Sunday the Euro-consensus enforced by a tripartite agreement of the
professional politicians and their allies in the media was shattered by a raw
and angry expression of popular patriotism and a determination to maintain the
national identity -and the nationhood itself -of the United Kingdom.

It has been my pleasure and joy to have worked with the UK Independence Party
ever since Roger Knapman, the party leader, and his wife Carolyn approached me
aboard a cruise ship gliding over the Mediterranean. A small party, with only
three members in the eunuch-like European Parliament, it was clear that the
Independence Party was expressing the will of a huge, but neglected, part of the
British electorate.

It remained only to penetrate the political and media monopoly of the pro-EU
establishment to tell UK voters that there was another option.

But this was no easy task. Barred from using radio or television ads, lumped
with the racist British National Party and the extremist Green Party as one of
the "others" in the national polling, and shut out of all media coverage, it was
not easy to bring even the fact of UKIP's existence to the attention of the
average British voter.

Further, the reasons for opposition to the EU spanned a wide range of political
sentiment. A horizontal issue, cutting across all areas of British life, the
intrusion of Brussels into the domestic life of the UK spurred broad resentment
for a variety of reasons. Some opposed the EU because of its inherently
undemocratic nature -government by bureaucracy not democracy. Others chaffed at
its fiats and regulations. Many failed to see why the UK should give the EU
twice as much money as it gets back. Opposition to the euro and the new
constitution fueled the fire.

Meanwhile, it was evident that Tony Blair was in trouble and that the Labour
Party was falling in the national polls. But the media, focused on Iraq, chalked
up his troubles to the chaos in Baghdad rather than the rapid erosion of British
sovereignty that was taking place on his watch and with his complicity.

It remained for the UK Independence Party to summarise the case against the EU
in a single word: "No". "No" was a blank slate on which voters could write their
own reasons for opposing Brussels. The constraints placed on the UKIP's campaign
by regulations, finances and the national media made it hard to project more
than a single-word campaign -but "no" sufficed quite well to express its views.

Once the message was clear, the question remained how to project it. Denied
access to media advertising and unable to penetrate the wall of censorship by
the Euro-friendly news organisations, the party resorted to billboards animated
by its one-word slogan: "No". The response was electrifying. Suddenly, tens of
thousands of frustrated Brits called the Independence Party and rallied to its
cause. Nobody had stood up to the European juggernaut before and now that a
party was openly demanding withdrawal from Brussels, the British people flocked
to its standard.

The resounding affirmation of the UKIP position in the European parliamentary
election will likely reshape politics in Britain and on the Continent for the
next four or five years. The Conservative Party will no longer be able to
straddle the Europe issue, opposing integration while out of power but leading
the UK into the Common Market and Maastricht once safely ensconced in Downing
Street.

If the Tories are to entertain any realistic hope of attaining power at the next
general election they will have to shift their party position and advocate
withdrawal from the European Union as it is currently constituted. As their
erstwhile leader Margaret Thatcher has pointed out, unless the Tories are
willing to pull out, their demand for renegotiation of the EU treaties will
never amount to anything.

For its part, Labour in general -and Tony Blair in particular -will have to come
to realise that its blue-collar base will not happily assent to the erosion of
national sovereignty and that while their party leaders seem to see no real
point in preserving a separate United Kingdom, they most assuredly do.

The Liberal Democrats, accustomed to defeat, will likely be the last to respond,
just adding the opposition of Independence Party voters to the long list of
reasons why they will never take power.

But perhaps the most important impact of the UKIP revolution will be on the
press and the media. The election results will open the eyes of the national
media, long in the habit of ignoring anti-EU sentiment, and force it to take
account of the broad dissatisfaction with the European Union and the political
integration it portends. The British media has often treated those who resisted
European political integration as racists. But there is nothing remotely racist
or even reactionary about the UKIP. Its opposition to Brussels is in the best
tradition of British freedom and represents nothing more or less than a desire
to see the Thatcher agenda of economic and political liberty maintained in the
face of European forces that would extinguish it.

The UKIP's strong showing necessitates a broad national debate on the key issue
of whether Britain truly wants the political integration implicit in the EU or
whether it desires only a free-trade agreement. British voters grasp that the
rational desire of the nations of Europe to trade freely with one another has
been hijacked to mean continental economic and political integration. In the
short term, Brussels wants a uniform currency, labour laws, tax policies and
interest rates. In the longer term, under the new constitution, those backing
integration want a full political union with one foreign and defence policy.

But beyond the questions of national sovereignty lies the key choice of
government by democracy or bureaucracy. The underlying assumption of the EU
leaders is that it is better for the well-educated and well-intentioned civil
servants in Brussels to make decisions based on the merits of each case,
sheltered from the chaotic world of popular democracy. With their melancholy
experiences with democracy, the Germans and the French willingly agree to the
surrender of popular control in the interests of national uniformity and what
they perceive to be enlightened government.

But the British experience, like the American, is quite different. In London, as
in Washington, there is a deep belief in democracy and an inveterate optimism
about reliance on public opinion as the basis for public policy.

The UK Independence Party voters want a free-trade union, but are not interested
in the political and economic integration that Brussels desires. Nigel Farage, a
UKIP member of the European Parliament, puts it best, demanding British
withdrawal from the EU and a subsequent renegotiation to establish "a free-trade
union which is what we thought we were getting into in the first place".

Will Europe oblige? Of course it will. Britain imports vastly more from the
Continent than it exports. The EU will not cut itself off from its best
customer.

Finally, it remains for me, as an American, to explain my commitment to British
independence. In the Second World War and most recently in the War on Terror, we
in the United States have come to see how crucial it is for the world to have an
independent Britain, able to stand up for freedom and democracy at our side. The
traditions and the values of the British people are so deeply imbued with the
love of freedom that they make the UK a reliable ally in the global battle for
freedom in a way that many other nations -with their different national
experiences - will likely never be.

May there always be an England (and a United Kingdom, too).

Dick Morris was consultant to the UKIP on the European election and Bill
Clinton's chief strategist, widely credited with his 1996 victory.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              318 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Voters deliver their verdict on the cosy political club

BYLINE: Michael Gove

SECTION: Features; 18

LENGTH: 920 words


The Government has been deceitful, aiming to control perceptions rather than
policy The nation has become resentful and voters are prey to extremist
arguments.

EMILE HESKEY and Patricia Hewitt may not appear to have much in common. But both
of them turned in appalling performances on Sunday.

The Leicester-born forward helped to turn victory into defeat for England with a
clumsy late intervention. Ms Hewitt, Labour MP for Leicester West, also stared
humiliation in the face that evening. But instead of hanging her head in shame,
after her party came third behind the UKIP in her own backyard, Ms Hewitt
appeared on television and tried to argue the result out of existence.

Even though Labour was rejected in both the local and European elections, the
Trade Secretary didn't accept that she had a problem. Oh no, the real losers,
she maintained, were everyone else in general, and the Tories in particular. If
Ms Hewitt had been playing for England she would have marched towards the camera
after the game was over and tried to tell the viewers that since her side had
been ahead for 53 of the 90 minutes, then, by any fair measure, France were the
weaker team.

Ms Hewitt was not alone among politicians in trying to spin bad news away on
election night. Almost all the talking heads from the main parties spent their
time engaging in partisan point-scoring along the lines of "we did better than
you lot/ expectations/last time, nah-nah-nah-nah-nah". They thought they were
explaining the results to us poor voters.

And in a sense they were. Though not quite in the way they thought. For the
recitation of insular, self-regarding, pre-spun "lines to take" underlined the
real message of our recent elections. The governing Establishment is
increasingly distant from the rest of Britain. Westminster political discussion
is often as irrelevant to most voters as chat at the Vanderbildt Club about the
squash ladder.

Those on the inside are obsessed about who's up and who's down, those on the
outside just see a privileged elite insulated from reality.

Although the UKIP has become "the story" of these elections, it is particularly
significant that the collective vote for all the non-Westminster parties, on an
increased turnout, went up. Anger with our governing parties, past and present,
goes beyond the mendacious handling of our relationship with Europe. The
electorate has demonstrated its anger with the whole business of
politics-as-usual.

Voters, having grown exhausted with Conservative prevarication under John Major,
are now comprehensively disillusioned with being patronised by Labour. But the
pendulum doesn't swing back. Instead voters are wrenching it out of the clock
case and using it to whack the Establishment.

It should be a cause for deep reproach to the political Establishment that
808,000 people voted for the fascist British National Party. It increased its
vote alongside the surge in support for the UKIP. And both made immigration a
central issue in their campaigns. The Government, in particular, should ask what
in its conduct has contributed to this.

Why doesn't the Home Office know how many new people have come to this country
in the past seven years? We get a new piece of immigration legislation every
year, and coded ministerial references to "swamping" but beyond all the new laws
and the recycled spin, there is neither firm action nor courageous honesty.

The Government has been deceitful on this sensitive issue, aiming to control
perceptions rather than policy. It sought to lower headline asylum figures by
allowing the number of those who come to this country on work visas to increase.

Ministers cynically sought applause for slamming one door shut, even as they
were covertly opening another round the back. No wonder there's a backlash. And
it will be the weakest who pay the price.

If we had a rigorous system which worked, we could then embark on making the
proper economic case that we need managed migration. But because the Government
palpably doesn't have a grip on this issue its promises of a "crackdown" on
abuse are seen as disingenuous. And any arguments for accepting new Britons are
seen as attempts to justify an inflow ministers are powerless to control rather
than deliberate choices made by a strong leadership. The nation becomes
resentful, and voters are prey to extremists.

A heavy responsibility now rests on establishment politicians, and as someone
who believes responsible government can come only from either of the two
principal parties, I dearly hope they can rise to it.

Politicians should recognise that their first duty is to engage in honest
dialogue with the public, not scoring cheap hits in Parliament. To that end they
must conduct themselves as responsible human beings do in argument, agreeing
with their opponents where consensus exists, rather than seeking to exploit
minor slips for momentary advantage. The corollary of being honest about areas
of agreement is being straight on issues where they diverge, framing arguments
in direct language rather than Westminster jargon.

Above all, the public deserve a serious engagement with the tough issues the
country faces. Whether it's telling the truth about the culture of complacency
in our police forces or being honest about what it takes to prevail in the War
on Terror, our leaders cannot afford to shy away from telling it straight. Or
they'll find the voters will carry on sending them an unmistakeable message.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              319 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Allies in a battle against Brussels

BYLINE: Patience Wheatcroft

SECTION: Business; 23

LENGTH: 403 words


FEW business people have publicly admitted to voting for the UK Independence
Party, although Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire property millionaire, was one of the
major backers. But the clear election message of dissatisfaction with Brussels
will have been applauded in many boardrooms.

As Digby Jones, Director-General of the CBI, points out, the proposed EU
constitution mentions the word "competitiveness" only once, and that has been
inserted only into the last draft. Many who are trying to run companies feel
that Brussels is hampering their attempts to compete in a global market rather
than helping.

Take, for instance, the EU's efforts to regulate the chemicals industry. The
Commission proposed that all chemicals manufactured in the EU should be subject
to a rigorous testing regime, no matter how long-established they were. Industry
throughout Europe howled that this would not only add significantly to costs but
also would open the way for a flood of chemicals manufactured outside the EU,
which would be exempt from the regime.

The Brussels bureaucracy is seen by many British companies as an expensive
generator of red tape which threatens to tie them more closely into the heavy
employment costs and obligations that burden companies in France and Germany.
The British Government's enthusiasm for gold-plating Brussels directives only
adds to that fear.

Business organisations have been petitioning Tony Blair to bear their interests
in mind as he embarks on this week's discussion about the EU constitution. The
Institute of Directors says that the constitution, as presently drafted, fails
to address the key issues that Europe faces with the growing challenges from
China and India but is essentially "inward looking" in its attitudes.

The IoD wants to see the constitution placing deregulation at the heart of the
EU and strengthening the internal market, which is still beset with barriers. It
also echoes the concerns of the CBI about the Charter of Fundamental Rights,
which is proposed to be fully integrated into the new constitution. The rights
set out in the charter sound entirely noble but they are, in fact, couched so
widely that they leave the way open for anyone with the slightest grievance to
head off to the Court of Human Rights.

Companies fear that, if it were ever effectively enshrined in our law, they
would be at risk of perpetual legal battles.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              320 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Down at heel Tories reshuffle to right

BYLINE: David Charter, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 592 words


MICHAEL HOWARD used a snap reshuffle to give his top team a more right-wing edge
as he sought to put the tribulations of Europe behind him yesterday.

The Tory leader acted earlier than expected to try to bring the agenda back to
domestic issues by splitting the combined health and education brief that he had
given to Tim Yeo only seven months ago.

In a speech today, Mr Howard will seek to further distance the party's worst
electoral performance by outlining his domestic policy vision. He will pledge
that the Conservatives will give people greater control and choice over their
public services as the backdrop to several weeks of policy announcements.

The Conservatives have embarked on stage three of a four-stage campaign for the
general election, and last night called their MPs to a postelections meeting. A
senior Conservative said: "Stage one was proving we were credible under Michael
Howard. Stage two was showing how Labour was failing. Stage three is showing
that we have alternatives. Stage four is proving that we will make a big
difference in government."

But the disentangling of Mr Yeo's job was a tacit admission that Mr Howard's
combination of education and health had failed. Tim Collins, the Shadow
Education Secretary, and Andrew Lansley, the Shadow Health Secretary, were
brought into the Shadow Cabinet, as Mr Yeo moved sideways to Environment.

Mr Lansley, 48, a former director of the Conservative research department, is a
right-wing Eurosceptic promoted by William Hague and Mr Howard. Mr Collins, 39,
is another right-wing Eurosceptic party apparatchik-turned-MP who backed Mr
Howard for leader in 1997 and 2003.

The reshuffle came as a surprise to Mr Yeo, who was preparing promotional
material for this month's announcement of new policies in education and health.
He was praised by Mr Howard for his "brilliant job" but will be seen as paying
the price for confusion over the "pupil passport" proposal to give education
vouchers to parents.

Mr Howard has asked him to do the same job of revitalising the Transport and
Environment brief, from where Theresa May, another moderniser, was shunted into
the new role of Shadow Secretary for the Family, a move interpreted as a
demotion for failing to make a policy impact. Most of the detailed work in this
area is well under way by David Willetts, the Shadow Work Secretary.

Mr Howard also took the job of policy co-ordinator away from Mr Willetts after
the wobbly European election campaign exposed weaknesses in the party's ability
to respond rapidly to the threat of the UKIP. The role was handed to David
Cameron, a trusted Howard lieutenant.

Ian McCartney, the Labour Party Chairman, said: "Michael Howard's decision to
sack Tim Yeo, the man responsible for the shambles of the Tory health and
education voucher schemes, is a stark admission that his agenda of cuts, charges
and privatisation for public services is failing. This reshuffle shows the panic
and disarray in the Tory party after their disastrous election campaign.Michael
Howardmust order his new shadow health and education secretaries to come clean
about where the cuts will fall."

A senior Tory source said: "People are saying that the Tories have got to show
that they are serious. We said we wanted to fight the local and European
campaign on the basis that the Government was failing because that is the best
way to fight those elections. What we are going to set out are the principles
that will guide our policies for Britain where Labour has failed."


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              321 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

By-election means no rest for the voters

BYLINE: Greg Hurst, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 546 words


BARELY had the ink dried on the winning candidates' acceptance speeches in one
small part of Eastern England than the thoughts of the political classes turned
to the next electoral contest.

Most voters, and even many politicians, have had enough of elections after the
exertions of the past few weeks. But the Labour Party in Leicester South is
bracing itself for a by-election that will test the hopeful theory that "super
Thursday" allowed voters unhappy with the Government to get Iraq out of their
system.

The immediate threat of a challenge from the UK Independence Party on the back
of its European election triumph appeared to fade yesterday as Robert Kilroy
Silk, already returned as an MEP for the East Midlands, ruled out standing.

Nigel Farage, a UKIP MEP, said the party may not field a candidate and instead
save its strength for battles ahead. "We are like a boxer coming out of a
successful fight. We are battered and bruised. We need time to regroup and
rethink," Mr Farage said.

The Liberal Democrats have cast themselves as the main rivals to Labour. They
were the first to select a candidate -Parmjit Singh Gill, 37, a local authority
information officer who sits on the council and contested the seat in 2001 and
have leased a cavernous office with 12 rooms. Labour will select a candidate on
Thursday and the Tories, who have taken an office within spitting distance of
the Lib Dems, are likely to next week.

The Lib Dems' battle for the protest vote may be fought not against the UKIP,
which poses a greater risk to the Tory and Labour vote, but against Respect, the
anti-war party set up by George Galloway. Across the three European Parliament
constituencies in Leicester, Respect won 7,375 votes to the Lib Dems' 10,690.
The Tories came third with 14,876, behind the UKIP with 15,252 and Labour with
22,061.

Mr Gill played down the results, saying he had detected no support for Respect
on the doorstep among Muslim voters; only anger with Labour about Iraq. His
election literature features the war heavily.

Labour will hit back at Mr Gill by highlighting the council's £2 million cuts in
funding for community groups. Sir Peter Soulsby, secretary of the local Labour
Party, said that the by-election would be "no pushover" but that the Tory
campaign would make it tougher for the Lib Dems.

The Conservatives are in no mood to give the Lib Dems a free run at the seat.
They have already put out a direct mailshot and two leaflets localised for each
ward.

Chris Heaton-Harris, the East Midlands MEP who will oversee the Tory campaign,
knows Leicester South well, having been a parliamentary candidate from 1995 to
1997. He took The Times on a tour of the area, which has Victorian redbrick
terraces, shabby council estates, student homes and suburban mansions within a
short drive. The population is also diverse, including 19 per cent Muslim, 9 per
cent Hindu and 4 per cent Sikh.

One thing uniting the area was the flag of St George, flying everywhere from
bedroom windows to vehicles in the mosque car park. Mr Heaton-Harris, a
qualified football referee, bore a T-shirt with the logo "Only Tories can win in
Leicester".

The aim is clear: to show there is more than one opposition team on the field.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              322 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Vote-winning Tories lose out to the sceptics

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 679 words


Philip Webster charts how the UKIP took the European elections by storm and left
mainstream rivals floundering

THE Conservatives "won" the European elections but managed to end up being the
biggest losers as well.

Michael Howard's party was the victim-in-chief as the UK Independence Party took
off as a serious political force, quadrupling its number of seats in the
European Parliament.

Only the Liberal Democrats, of the main parties, was able to withstand the
advance of the party that campaigns for withdrawal from the EU, and of other
minority parties such as the Greens and the British National Party. But even
Charles Kennedy's party was looking embarrassed as it was forced into fourth
place, although it just increased its share of the vote and its tally of MEPs
rose by two.

The UKIP came from the back of the field to finish behind the Tories and Labour,
increasing its number of MEPs from 3 to 12 and securing 16 per cent of the vote.

It was a stunning result but expectations had been even higher because of polls
suggesting the party would do better.

The Conservatives finished with a 27 per cent share of the vote, 4 per cent
ahead of Labour. But the Tories were well down, by 9 per cent, on William
Hague's showing in 1999. History was made in a way that neither wanted.

The Tories had their lowest share of any nationwide vote since 1832 and Labour
secured its worst share of the vote since before the First World War. After
another bad night for Labour, compounding its poor showing in the local
elections, there was at least some consolation yesterday when it finished ahead
in Scotland, enabling it to raise its share of the national vote. Labour won two
seats as did the Tories and the Scottish National Party, while the Lib Dems won
one.

Labour was pleased with its Welsh showing, raising its vote by 1 per cent. Plaid
Cymru's vote fell by 12 per cent and the Tories' share dropped by 3 per cent.

Mr Blair tried to calm the nerves of Labour MPs at a meeting last night by
promising to focus on the domestic agenda and to devote his energies to winning
a third term. He told them that he hoped that Iraq would soon be "in a different
place" and that they should go out and start selling their record on the economy
and public services.

He will try to maintain the momentum today at his monthly press conference by
announcing that the Government's five-year plan for health will come next week,
to be followed by education, transport and crime over the next few weeks.

Gordon Brown's Comprehensive Spending Review, setting out plans up to and beyond
the next election, is likely to be announced before the end of this month.

From the first results in London and the North East the UKIP was on the march.
Its best showing was in the East Midlands, where it came within 0.3 per cent, in
its share of votes, of beating the Tories and where its high-profile candidate
Robert Kilroy-Silk was elected. In the South West and South East, two of the
UKIP's stronghold areas, it took second place behind the Tories.

The Green Party retained its two MEPs, in London and the South East, and its
share of the vote has so far held up from its 1999 showing. The Green MEP
Caroline Lucas said: "This is a fantastic result for Green parties and shows
that we are here to stay, we are part of the political picture."

The British National Party raised its share of the vote to 5.7 per cent but its
leader, Nick Griffin, failed to win a seat in the North West.

In Northern Ireland the Democratic Unionists scored a comfortable victory. Jim
Allister, a barrister, topped the poll, with 175,761 votes, in the battle for
Ulster's three European Parliament seats. Sinn Fein captured its first European
seat in Northern Ireland. Bairbre de Brun, for Sinn Fein, came second in the
poll, winning her party's second European seat in this election, after the
success in the Irish Republic of Mary Lou McDonald as Dublin's candidate. She
secured 144,541 votes.

Dick Morris, page 18

Leading article and Letters, page 19


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              323 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP 'gadflies' gatecrash Howard campaigns

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Anthony Browne and Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 636 words


AFTER spectacular success in the European elections, the UK Independence Party
now plans to "gate crash" two key Conservative campaigns, it emerged last night.

Joining the "no" campaigns in the referendum on the regional assemblies in
October and in the referendum on the European constitution is a canny move by
the UKIP to gain the state funding that would otherwise fall to the Conservative
campaign.

In both cases, each side of the campaign receives state funding via the
Electoral Commission -in the case of the referendum on the European constitution
each side will receive £600,000. This will now have to be split between the
Tories and the UKIP.

The move is part of a wider strategy to boost the funds and legitimacy of a
party dismissed by Michael Howard as "gadflies", which has now quadrupled its
seats in the European Parliament to 12. The initiative extends to Brussels,
where the UKIP will meet with other Eurosceptic parties tomorrow with the
intention of forming their own group and founding a research unit in the Belgian
city with hundreds and thousands of pounds of European Union funds.

The UKIP's leadership is also hoping that Peter Mandelson will stand down as the
MP for Hartlepool to become European Commissioner so that it can fight the
subsequent by-election there, rather than the by-election in Leicester South
next month.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, who is now one of the UKIP's two MEPs in the East Midlands,
said at a press conference yesterday that his plan was to "wreck" the EU.

When asked what he intended to do in the Parliament he said: "Wreck it. Expose
it for the waste, the corruption and the way it's eroding our independence and
our sovereignty."

Before the election, the UKIP's three MEPs were the most anti-EU members of the
Parliament's Eurosceptic Europe of Diversities and Democracies group. It aimed
to subvert the parliamentary process whenever possible. In 2001 it voted to send
a food supplement measure back, and so delay it for years.

UKIP takes its responsibilities seriously: over the past five years, its three
MEPs have attended on average 72 per cent of votes, compared with 81 per cent of
Britain's most Europhile party, the Liberal Democrats.

Like the other UKIP MEPs, Mr Kilroy-Silk will take the post's expenses. In the
past, party MEPs have done their best to highlight the extravagence of EU
expenses. The three UKIP MEPs pooled the excess on their travel expenses to fund
the "metric martyr", the Sunderland greengrocer prosecuted for trading in pounds
and ounces. They were disciplined by the EU and asked to return the £11,500.

But their lack of numbers meant that they were rarely successful in blocking and
delaying votes. The UKIP's elections success means the Eurosceptic group has now
more than doubled to around 40 or 50 members, who could hold the swing vote in
legislation.

The UKIP is now also by far the largest party in the group, and in tomorrow's
meeting will be in a strong position to take control of the group under a
different name and along harder policy lines.

"We may be forming quite a large Eurosceptic group in this new Parliament and we
may hold the balance of power in that Parliament," said Nigel Farage, UKIP MEP.

"If we can use that position to obstruct and delay new legislation we will do
so, and will do so knowing that that legislation falls upon the small businesses
in this country that are the backbone of our economy and they'll be cheering us
to the rafters if we can do that."

The new group will entitle the UKIP to funding to employ at least a dozen staff
in Brussels in addition to administrative support. The UKIP intends to use this
to set up a policy research unit in Brussels, rather than in London as first
planned, David Lott, the party's chairman said.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              324 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Lib Dems celebrate gain of two seats

BYLINE: Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 229 words


THE Liberal Democrats were in a buoyant mood yesterday after they increased
their number of MEPs from 10 to 12, despite coming fourth in the European
elections.

The pro-European party was beaten into fourth place by the UK Independence
Party, which garnered 16 per cent of the vote and also won 12 seats.

But the Lib Dems, with 15 per cent of the vote -an increase of 2 percentage
points on 1999 -could claim to have made good progress.

Charles Kennedy, the party leader, said: "I stated at the outset of the campaign
that my aim was for the Liberal Democrats to win more votes and more seats - and
that's exactly what we've done."

He congratulated his new MEPs, Fiona Hall, in the North East, and Sajjad Karim,
in the North West, who becomes the party's first non-white elected
representative.

The Lib Dems believe that their gains in the North in the European and local
elections, where they won control of Newcastle, and Conservative weakness in
those areas show that they are now the main challenger to Labour in its
heartlands.

Their European campaign chiefly highlighted the party's opposition to the war in
Iraq. A spokesman defended the decision to link the two issues, saying: "Part of
the great damage that the war did was to our allies in Europe, by jettisoning
them in favour of a misguidedly close relationship with George Bush."


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              325 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

British results in full

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 2120 words


EAST MIDLANDS

(Derby; Derbyshire; Leicester; Leicestershire; Lincolnshire; Northamptonshire;
Nottingham; Nottinghamshire; Rutland) Elected: *Roger Helmer (C), *Chris
Heaton-Harris (C), *Phillip Whitehead (Lab), *Bill Newton Dunn (LD), Robert
Kilroy-Silk (UKIP), Derek Clark (UKIP)

C371,362(26.40%, -13.07%)UKIP366,498(26.05%, +18.48%)Lab294,918(20.97%,
-7.60%)LD181,964(12.94%, +0.17%)BNP91,860(6.53%, +5.24%)Green76,633(5.45%,
+0.07%)Respect20,009(1.42%)Ind R2,615(0.19%)Ind H847(0.06%)C maj 4,864
(0.35%)15.78% swing from UKIP to C Electorate3,241,566; Turnout1,406,706
(43.40%, +20.57%)

1999C maj78,906 (10.90%); Turnout723,733 (22.83%) C 285,662 (39.47%); Lab
206,756 (28.57%); LD 92,398 (12.77%); UKIP 54,800 (7.57%); Green 38,954 (5.38%);
Alt Lab 17,409 (2.41%); Pro Euro C 11,359 (1.57%); BNP 9,342 (1.29%); Soc Lab
5,528 (0.76%); NLP 1,525 (0.21 %)

Elected: Nick Clegg (LD), Christopher Heaton-Harris (C), Roger Helmer (C), Bill
Newton-Dunn (C), Mel Read (Lab) Philip Whitehead (Lab)

EASTERN

(Bedfordshire; Cambridgeshire; Essex; Hertfordshire; Luton; Norfolk;
Peterborough; Southend-on-Sea; Suffolk; Thurrock) Elected: *Geoffrey Van Orden
(C), *Robert Sturdy (C), *Christopher Beazley (C), *Richard Howitt (Lab),
*Andrew Duff (LD), *Jeffrey Titford (UKIP), Tom Wise (UKIP)

C465,526(30.82%, -11.92%)UKIP296,160(19.61%, +10.72%)Lab244,929(16.22%,
-8.94%)LD211,378(14.00%, +2.05%)Ind93,028(6.16%)Green84,068(5.57%,
-0.60%)BNP65,557(4.34%, +3.40%)EDP26,807(1.78%)Respect13,904(0.92%)Ind
Naisbitt5,137(0.34%)Prolife3,730(0.25%)C maj 169,366 (11.21%)11.32% swing from
UKIP to C Electorate4,137,374; Turnout1,510,224 (36.50%, +11.76%)

1999C maj174,959 (17.59%); Turnout994,438 (24.74%) C 425,091 (42.75%); Lab
250,132 (25.15%); LD 118,822 (11.95%); UKIP 88,452 (8.89%); Green 61,334
(6.17%); Lib 16,861 (1.70%); Pro Euro C 16,340 (1.64%); BNP 9,356 (0.94%); Soc
Lab 6,143 (0.62%); NLP 1,907 (0.19 %) Elected: Christopher Beazley (C), Andrew
Duff (LD), Richard Howitt (Lab), Bashir Khanbhai (C), Eryl McNally (Lab), Robert
Sturdy (C), Jeffrey Titford (UKIP), Geoffrey Van Orden (C)

LONDON

Elected: *Miss Theresa Villiers (C), *John Bowis (C), *Charles Tannock (C),
*Claude Moraes (Lab), *Mary Honeyball (Lab), *Robert Evans (Lab), *Ms Sarah
Ludford (LD), *Jean Lambert (Green), Gerard Batten (UKIP) C504,941(26.78%,
-5.90%)Lab466,584(24.75%, -10.26%)LD288,790(15.32%, +3.66%)UKIP232,633(12.34%,
+6.93%)Green158,986(8.43%, +0.76%)Respect91,175(4.84%)BNP76,152(4.04%,
+2.47%)CPA45,038(2.39%)EDP15,945(0.85%)PPBG5,205(0.28%)C maj 38,357 (2.03%)2.18%
swing from C to Lab

Electorate5,054,957; Turnout1,885,449 (37.30%, +14.20%) 1999Lab maj26,477
(2.32%); Turnout1,141,225 (23.10%) Lab 399,466 (35.00%); C 372,989 (32.68%); LD
133,058 (11.66%); Green 87,545 (7.67%); UKIP 61,741 (5.41%); Soc Lab 19,632
(1.72%); BNP 17,960 (1.57%); Lib 16,951 (1.49%); Pro Euro C 16,383 (1.44%);
AHRPE 4,851 (0.43%); Anti VAT 2,596 (0.23%); Humanist 2,586 (0.23%); Hemp 2,358
(0.21%); NLP 2,263 (0.20%); WW 846 (0.07 %) Elected: Richard Balfe (Lab), Lord
Bethell (C), John Bowis (C), Robert Evans (Lab), Pauline Green (Lab), Jean
Lambert (Green), Baroness Sarah Ludford (LD), Claude Moraes (Lab), Charles
Tannock (C), Theresa Villiers (C)

NORTH EAST

(County Durham; Darlington; Hartlepool; Middlesbrough; Northumberland; Redcar
and Cleveland; Stockton-on-Tees; Tyne and Wear) Elected: *Martin Callanan (C),
*Stephen Hughes (Lab), Fiona Hall (LD) Lab266,057(34.09%,
-8.06%)C144,969(18.57%, -8.79%)LD138,791(17.78%, +4.28%)UKIP94,887(12.16%,
+3.33%)BNP50,249(6.44%, +5.53%)Ind39,658(5.08%)Green37,247(4.77%,
+0.06%)Respect8,633(1.11%)Lab maj 121,088 (15.51%)0.37% swing from Lab to C
Electorate1,911,562; Turnout780,491 (40.83%, +21.09%)

1999Lab maj57,000 (14.78%); Turnout385,741 (19.74%) Lab 162,573 (42.15%); C
105,573 (27.37%); LD 52,070 (13.50%); UKIP 34,063 (8.83%); Green 18,184 (4.71%);
Soc Lab 4,511 (1.17%); BNP 3,505 (0.91%); Pro Euro C 2,926 (0.76%); SPGB 1,510
(0.39%); NLP 826 (0.21 %) Elected: Martin Callanan (C), Alan Donnelly (Lab),
Stephen Hughes (Lab), Mo O'Toole (Lab)

NORTH WEST

(Blackburn-with-Darwen; Blackpool; Cheshire; Cumbria; Greater Manchester;
Halton; Lancashire; Merseyside; Warrington) Elected: *Den Dover (C), *David
Sumberg (C), *Sir Robert Atkins (C), *Gary Titley (Lab), *Arlene McCarthy (Lab),
*Terry Wynn (Lab), *Chris Davies (LD), Saj Karim (LD), John Whittaker (UKIP)

Lab576,388(27.38%, -7.08%)C509,446(24.20%, -11.19%)LD335,063(15.92%,
+4.18%)UKIP247,158(11.74%, +5.18%)BNP134,958(6.41%, +5.08%)Green117,393(5.58%,
-0.01%)Lib96,325(4.58%,
+2.35%)EDP34,110(1.62%)Respect24,636(1.17%)Countryside11,283(0.54%)Prolife10,
84(0.

48%)Ind8,318(0.40%)Lab maj 66,942 (3.18%)2.06% swing from Lab to C
Electorate5,151,964; Turnout2,105,162 (40.86%, +21.19%) 1999C maj9,516 (0.94%);
Turnout1,017,194 (19.67%)

C 360,027 (35.39%); Lab 350,511 (34.46%); LD 119,376 (11.74%); UKIP 66,779
(6.57%); Green 56,828 (5.59%); Lib 22,640 (2.23%); BNP 13,587 (1.34%); Soc Lab
11,338 (1.11%); Pro Euro C 9,816 (0.97%); ACPFCA 2,251 (0.22%); NLP 2,114
(0.21%); Ind Hum 1,049 (0.10%); WW 878 (0.09 %) Elected: Sir Robert Atkins (C),
Chris Davies (LD), Densmore Dover (C), Jacqueline Foster (C), Lord Inglewood
(C), Arlene McCarthy (Lab), Brian Simpson (Lab), David Sumberg (C), Gary Titley
(Lab), Terry Wynn (Lab)

SCOTLAND

Elected: *Struan Stevenson (C), *John Purvis (C), *David Martin (Lab),
*Catherine Stihler (Lab), *Elspeth Attwooll (LD), *Ian Hudghton (SNP), Alyn
Smith (SNP) Lab310,865(26.42%, -2.27%)SNP231,505(19.67%, -7.50%)C209,028(17.76%,
-2.00%)LD154,178(13.10%, +3.29%)Green79,695(6.77%, +0.99%)UKIP78,828(6.70%,
+5.43%)SSP61,356(5.21%, +1.19%)OCV21,056(1.79%)BNP19,427(1.65%, +1.27%)Wind
Watch7,255(0.62%)Ind3,624(0.31%)Lab maj 79,360 (6.74%)2.61% swing from Lab to
SNP Electorate3,809,111; Turnout1,176,817 (30.89%, +6.06%)

1999Lab maj14,962 (1.51%); Turnout988,310 (24.83%) Lab 283,490 (28.68%); SNP
268,528 (27.17%); C 195,296 (19.76%); LD 96,971 (9.81%); Green 57,142 (5.78%);
SSP 39,720 (4.02%); Pro Euro C 17,781 (1.80%); UKIP 12,549 (1.27%); Soc Lab
9,385 (0.95%); BNP 3,729 (0.38%); NLP 2,087 (0.21%); Lower Tax 1,632 (0.17 %)

Elected: Elspeth Attwool (SLD), Ian Hudghton (SNP), Neil MacCormick (SNP), David
Martin (Lab), John Purvis (SCU), Struan Stevenson (SCU), Catherine Taylor (Lab)

SOUTH EAST

(Bracknell Forest; Brighton and Hove; Buckinghamshire; East Sussex; Hampshire;
Isle of Wight; Kent; Medway; Milton Keynes; Oxfordshire; Portsmouth; Reading;
Slough; Southampton; Surrey; West Berkshire; West Sussex; Windsor and
Maidenhead; Wokingham) Elected: *Daniel Hannan (C), *Nirj Deva (C), *James Elles
(C), Richard Ashworth (C), *Peter Skinner (Lab), *Chris Huhne (LD), *Emma
Nicholson (LD), *Caroline Lucas (Green), *Nigel Farage (UKIP), Ashley Mote (UKIP
)

C776,370(35.17%, -9.25%)UKIP431,111(19.53%, +9.83%)LD338,342(15.33%,
+0.02%)Lab301,398(13.65%, -5.95%)Green173,351(7.85%, +0.43%)BNP64,877(2.94%,
+2.12%)Senior42,861(1.94%)EDP29,126(1.32%)Respect13,426(0.61%)Peace12,572(0.5
%)CPA 11,733(0.53%)Prolife6,579(0.30%)Ind5,671(0.26%)C maj 345,259 (15.64%)9.54%
swing from UKIP to C Electorate6,048,349; Turnout2,207,417 (36.50%, +11.55%)

1999C maj369,785 (24.82%); Turnout1,490,069 (24.95%) C 661,931 (44.42%); Lab
292,146 (19.61%); LD 228,136 (15.31%); UKIP 144,514 (9.70%); Green 110,571
(7.42%); Pro Euro C 27,305 (1.83%); BNP 12,161 (0.82%); Soc Lab 7,281 (0.49%);
NLP 2,767 (0.19%); Ind Stable 1,857 (0.12%); Ind Profit 1,400 (0.09 %)

Elected: Nirj Deva (C), James Elles (C), Nigel Farage (UKIP), Daniel Hannan (C),
Chris Huhne (LD), Caroline Lucas (Green), Baroness Nicholson (LD), Roy Perry
(C), Provan (C), Peter Skinner (Lab), Mark Watts (Lab)

SOUTH WEST

(Bath and North East Somerset; Bournemouth; Bristol; Cornwall; Devon; Dorset;
Gloucestershire; North Somerset; Plymouth; Poole; Scilly Isles; Somerset; South
Gloucestershire; Swindon; Torbay; Wiltshire) Elected: *Neil Parish (C),
*Caroline Jackson (C), *Giles Chichester (C), *Glyn Ford (Lab), *Graham Watson
(LD), *Graham Booth (UKIP), Roger Knapman (UKIP) C457,371(31.58%,
-10.12%)UKIP326,784(22.56%, +11.91%)LD265,619(18.34%, +1.89%)Lab209,908(14.49%,
-3.58%)Green103,821(7.17%, -1.14%)BNP43,653(3.01%,
+2.08%)Countryside30,824(2.13%)Respect10,437(0.72%)C maj 130,587 (9.02%)11.02%
swing from UKIP to C Electorate3,852,708; Turnout1,448,417 (37.59%, +9.78%)
1999C maj246,283 (23.63%); Turnout1,042,387 (27.81%)

C 434,645 (41.70%); Lab 188,362 (18.07%); LD 171,498 (16.45%); UKIP 111,012
(10.65%); Green 86,630 (8.31%); Lib 21,645 (2.08%); Pro Euro C 11,134 (1.07%);
BNP 9,752 (0.94%); Soc Lab 5,741 (0.55%); NLP 1,968 (0.19 %) Elected: Giles
Chichester (C), Glyn Ford (Lab), Michael Holmes (UKIP), Caroline Jackson (C),
Neil Parish (C), The Earl of Stockton (C), Graham Watson (LD)

WALES

Elected: *Jonathan Evans (C), *Glenys Kinnock (Lab), *Eluned Morgan (Lab), *Jill
Evans (PC) Lab297,810(32.45%, +0.57%)C177,771(19.37%, -3.40%)PC159,888(17.42%,
-12.15%)UKIP96,677(10.53%, +7.39%)LD96,116(10.47%, +2.29%)Green32,761(3.57%,
+0.99%)BNP27,135(2.96%)Forward17,280(1.88%)CDP6,821(0.74%)Respect5,427(0.59%) ab
maj 120,039 (13.08%)1.99% swing from Lab to C Electorate2,218,649;
Turnout917,686 (41.36%, +13.03%) 1999Lab maj14,455 (2.31%); Turnout626,425
(28.33%)

Lab 199,690 (31.88%); PC 185,235 (29.57%); C 142,631 (22.77%); LD 51,283
(8.19%); UKIP 19,702 (3.15%); Green 16,146 (2.58%); Pro Euro C 5,834 (0.93%);
Soc Lab 4,283 (0.68%); NLP 1,621 (0.26 %) Elected: Jill Evans (PC), Jonathan
Evans (C), Glenys Kinnock (Lab), Eluned Morgan (Lab), Eurig Wyn (PC)

WEST MIDLANDS

(Herefordshire; Shropshire; Staffordshire; Stoke-on-Trent; Telford and Wrekin;
Warwickshire; West Midlands Metropolitan County; Worcestershire) Elected:
*Philip Bushill-Matthews (C), *Philip Bradbourn (C), *Malcolm Harbour (C),
*Michael Cashman (Lab), *Neena Gill (Lab), *Liz Lynne (LD), Mike Nattrass (UKIP)
C392,937(27.34%, -10.56%)Lab336,613(23.42%, -4.58%)UKIP251,366(17.49%,
+11.65%)LD197,479(13.74%, +2.46%)BNP107,794(7.50%, +5.81%)Green73,991(5.15%,
-0.68%)Respect34,704(2.41%)Pensioners33,501(2.33%)CG8,650(0.60%)C maj 56,324
(3.92%)2.99% swing from Lab to C Electorate3,996,130; Turnout1,437,035 (35.96%,
+14.75%) 1999C maj84,048 (9.90%); Turnout848,684 (21.21%)

C 321,719 (37.91%); Lab 237,671 (28.00%); LD 95,769 (11.28%); UKIP 49,621
(5.85%); Green 49,440 (5.83%); MEP Ind 36,849 (4.34%); Lib 14,954 (1.76%); BNP
14,344 (1.69%); Pro Euro C 11,144 (1.31%); Soc All 7,203 (0.85%); Soc Lab 5,257
(0.62%); EFP 3,066 (0.36%); NLP 1,647 (0.19 %) Elected: Philip Bradbourn (C),
Philip Bushill-Matthews (C), Michael Cashman (Lab), John Corrie (C), Neena Gill
(Lab), Malcolm Harbour (C), Liz Lynne (LD), Simon Murphy (Lab)

YORKSHIRE & THE HUMBER

(East Riding of Yorkshire; Kingston-upon-Hull; North East Lincolnshire; North
Lincolnshire; North Yorkshire; South Yorkshire; West Yorkshire; York) Elected:
*Timothy Kirkhope (C), *Edward McMillan-Scott (C), *Linda McAvan (Lab), *Richard
Corbett (Lab), *Diana Wallis (LD), Godfrey Bloom (UKIP) Lab413,213(26.27%,
-5.05%)C387,369(24.62%, -12.02%)LD244,607(15.55%, +1.15%)UKIP228,666(14.54%,
+7.44%)BNP126,538(8.04%, +6.85%)Green90,337(5.74%,
+0.02%)Respect29,865(1.90%)EDP24,068(1.53%)ND14,762(0.94%)AGS13,776(0.88%)Lab
maj 25,844 (1.64%)3.48% swing from Lab to C Electorate3,694,415;
Turnout1,573,201 (42.58%, +22.83%) 1999C maj39,629 (5.33%); Turnout744,067
(19.75%)

C 272,653 (36.64%); Lab 233,024 (31.32%); LD 107,168 (14.40%); UKIP 52,824
(7.10%); Green 42,604 (5.73%); Alt Lab 9,554 (1.28%); BNP 8,911 (1.20%); Pro
Euro C 8,075 (1.09%); Soc Lab 7,650 (1.03%); NLP 1,604 (0.22 %) Elected: David
Bowe (Lab), Richard Corbett (Lab), Robert Goodwill (C), Timothy Kirkhope (C),
Linda McAvan (Lab), Edward McMillan-Scott (C), Diana Wallis (LD)

NORTHERN IRELAND

(First count) Jim Allister (DUP)(175,761) Ms Bairbre de Brun (SF)(144,541) *Jim
Nicholson (UUP)(91,164) Martin Morgan (SDLP) (87,559) John Gilliland
(Ind)(36,270) Eamonn McCann (Soc Env)(9,172) Lindsay Whitcroft (Green)(4,810)
Elected: Jim Allister, Bairbre de Brun (Second count) Distribution of Allister's
surplus *Jim Nicholson (UUP) (124,646) Martin Morgan (SDLP)(88,010) John
Gilliland (Ind)(39,390) Eamonn McCann (Soc Env)(9,268) Lindsay Whitcroft
(Green)(5,134)

Eliminated: John Gilliland, Eamonn McCann, Lindsay Whitcroft (Third count)
Distribution of Gilliland's, McCann's and Whitcroft's votes *Jim Nicholson (UUP)
147,058 Martin Morgan (SDLP) 108,533 Elected: Jim Nicholson Electorate
1,072,669; Turnout 554,744 (51.72%, -6.05%) 1999: Turnout 687,573 (57.77%)
Elected: Ian Paisley, John Hume, Jim Nicholson


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              326 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Now we know: Britain's destiny is to remain a full member of the European
awkward squad

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 545 words


BRITAIN is destined to remain a perpetually awkward partner in the European
Union.

Tony Blair's hopes of ending decades of ambiguity and doubt in the relationship
have been dashed: indeed, the failure of his European policy was clear well
before June 10.

The European election results have shown how narrow the terrain is in which
British politicians have to operate.

The success of the United Kingdom Independence Party in winning 16 per cent of
the national vote has not altered that landscape. It was more like a storm than
an earthquake. The leaders of the UKIP have had their 15 days in the limelight.
But contrary to some of the baloney that their euphoric leaders talked
yesterday, Britain is not on its way out of the EU.

Even on June 10, just one in six voters backed a party demanding withdrawal.

Repeated polls have shown that, even in the current heavily sceptic mood, a
narrow majority would back continued membership of the EU. In any campaign on an
"in/out" question, I have little doubt that the "in" side would win.

The real debate is about the nature of our membership. Mr Blair has failed to
break the familiar pattern of reluctant acquiesence, "red lines" negotiations
and the like. The old pro-European arguments no longer work. Euro entry, once
just around the corner, has been postponed beyond the distant horizon. Mr
Blair's goal is now the main, minimal one of winning a referendum on the
European constitution, if one is agreed in Brussels this week. Far from the
fears of the sceptics about a superstate, this largely codifies the present
position.

Michael Howard has offered an alternative vision. Under the umbrella of "live
and let live", it is effectively a continuation and extension of the British opt
outs in the Maastricht treaty, on which he insisted at the time, plus some
renegotiation of existing arrangements, such as the fisheries policy.

The UKIP and the proEuropeans alike doubt whether this strategy will work: why
should any other EU member allow Britain to have the benefits of membership
without the costs and obligations? For the UKIP, and its many Tory sympathisers,
this means that withdrawal will have to be considered, but this would split the
Tories as seriously as Labour was in the 1970s and 1980s.

A Howard government might be in the same position as the Wilson administration
in 1974, committed to a renegotiation which its leaders know will be hard to
achieve.

Just as in 1974-75, the talks could be largely a sham, producing at most token
changes on, say, fisheries, but leaving the status quo largely intact. A Howard
government would not sign up to new EU policies, but it would probably not take
the risk of a confrontation over the core relationship by trying to change the
1972 accession legislation. In that sense it would be Mr Howard's "live and let
live" relationship, with Britain further on the outside of European
developments.

The UKIP upsurge, coupled with the fall in the Tory and Labour votes, underlines
just how tricky Europe is to handle. Mr Blair no longer has the authority to
take big leaps forward, and Mr Howard has been reminded that Euroscepticism is
hard to control. No wonder they both quickly want to shift attention to domestic
issues.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              327 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Electorates use EU to punish their rulers

BYLINE: Charles Bremner, Roger Boyes and Richard Owen

SECTION: Home news; 13

LENGTH: 582 words


SITTING governments in most of the European Union's 15 old member states were
licking their wounds yesterday after disgruntled voters used the European
elections to punish their rulers.

As well as Britain's Tony Blair, President Chirac of France and Gerhard
Schroder, Germany's Social Democrat Chancellor, took heavy beatings.

Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia party paid the price for supporting the US over
Iraq and Italy's weak economy, although his centre-right coalition just about
held its own against a challenge from the Left commanded by Romano Prodi, the
outgoing European Commission President.

In Austria, Belgium, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal and Sweden the ruling
parties all saw their support plummet, regardless of their political colour. In
Denmark the opposition Social Democrats benefited from hostility to the
pro-American policies of Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the centre-right Prime Minister.

The results were a "disaster for the existing coalitions in many countries,"
conceded Ben Bot, the Dutch Foreign Minister.

Spain and Greece were notable exceptions to the trend, clearly because they had
only recently elected new governments.

Spanish voters renewed their confidence in Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, the
Socialist Prime Minister, but with less enthusiasm than in March's general
election. Greece's centre-right New Democracy, elected in March, won
endorsement.

Finland also bucked the trend, and tiny Luxembourg stuck loyally behind
Jean-Claude Juncker, their long-serving centre-right Prime Minister.

Although domestic politics dominated the campaigns, a surge in anti-EU feeling
also shook the political establishments.

In Britain, this took the shape of the UK Independence Party. Seven per cent of
Dutch voters backed Transparent Europe, a new group founded by Paul van
Buitenen, a former EU official turned anti-fraud campaigner.

In Sweden a new Eurosceptic party called June List reaped nearly 15 per cent of
the vote, seriously damaging the ruling Social Democrats and putting Goran
Persson, the Prime Minister, under greater pressure to hold a referendum on the
new European constitution.

In France voters swung heavily away from President Chirac's centre-right Union
for a Popular Movement to two pro-EU parties: the Socialist Opposition and the
Union for French Democracy.

M Chirac turned a deaf ear to Socialist demands that he replace Jean-Pierre
Raffarin, his Prime Minister, after the second electoral defeat in three months.

Party insiders, however, expect M Raffarin to go well ahead of general and
presidential elections in 2007. Le Monde said that the French vote amounted to a
triple defeat: for M Chirac, his party and his Government.

But the biggest defeat among the old 15 EU states was visited on Herr Schroder,
whose Social Democrats scored 21.5 per cent, the lowest in five decades of
German elections.

He refused to bow yesterday to pressure to reshuffle his Cabinet and ease
economic reforms.

"I can only continue this policy and I only want to continue this policy," he
said. "Naturally, it hurts me when I see that there is not the necessary public
support."

Voters defected from the German leader to the Christian Democrats, Greens and
Communists. Taking abstentions into account, the Chancellor lost 13 million of
the 18.5 million votes he commanded in the 2002 general election.

The anti-Schroder vote was a protest against his reform of the social welfare
system.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              328 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2004, Tuesday

Leaders plan for a robust constitution as remedy to voter apathy

BYLINE: Anthony Browne in Brussels, Rory Watson in Luxembourg and Philip Webster
in

SECTION: Home news; 13

LENGTH: 908 words


ONE day after the European Union's unprecedented rebuff from its citizens, its
leaders ruled out a change of course and redoubled their commitment to agree the
Union's first constitution later this week.

EU foreign ministers meeting in Luxembourg declared that the electorate's rising
apathy and euroscepticism were a "disease". They insisted that the remedy was to
demonstrate that the EU works, and more intensively to educate the public about
the Union's benefits.

The ministers said that the EU's heads of government were determined to agree
the troubled constitution at a summit in Brussels this Friday. However, critics
contend that the controversial document will lead merely to a greater
centralisation of power in Brussels.

The mood of defiance was set by Brian Cowen, the Irish Foreign Minister, when he
told EU colleagues not be deflected from their task, despite the lowest-ever
turnout in European elections and record gains by Eurosceptic parties, who now
control up to a fifth of the European Parliament.

Admitting that the elections had been a wake-up call, he said: "It is important
to recognise that we keep the commitment we made to each other. We have got to
make sure we have a successful outcome by the end of this week. We need to show
Europe works."

The German and French ministers struck a similar tone. "We all know what is at
stake. Europe needs a success," Joschka Fischer, the German Foreign Minister,
said.

"The political need for an agreement is even more of an imperative after
yesterday evening. It is necessary for Europe's house to be in order," Michel
Barnier, his French counterpart, declared.

Jack Straw insisted that it was his "duty", and that of Tony Blair, to secure a
deal that was good for Britain and Europe.

To the dismay of Brussels, the turnout in Europe's first truly pan-continental
elections reached a record low of just 45.5 per cent. Record low turnouts were
also recorded in Germany, France, Italy and Spain.

Most distressing of all was the fact that the turnout was lowest in the Eastern
European countries that joined the EU barely six weeks ago. The turnout for the
ten new member states averaged 26.4 per cent. In Poland and Slovakia, only one
in five bothered to vote, prompting President Kwasniewski of Poland to call his
country's apathy "a disease we will have to look at".

Pat Cox, the outgoing European Parliament President, called the results a
"wake-up call" and told European leaders that they had to demonstrate the EU's
relevance to voters. "States need to engage, particularly in Central and Eastern
Europe, in voter education of EU institutions," he said.

Equally worrying for Europe's leaders was the rise of Eurosceptic parties. As
well as the United Kingdom Independence Party, avowedly eurosceptic parties
gained seats in Sweden, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland and the Czech Republic.
Around 50 MEPs in the new Parliament belong to hardline eurosceptic parties,
with another 50 eurosceptics belonging to mainstream parties such as the
Conservatives. About 20 other MEPs belong to far-right parties, such as the
French National Front and Vlaams Blok in Belgium, who tend to be opposed to
further concentration of power in Brussels. In total, about 120 MEPs -or nearly
a fifth of the total -are now hostile to the EU to varying degrees.

Nevertheless, the Parliament's grandees lined up yesterday to insist that it was
the public that must change, not the way the EU operates. Voters "are of the
idea that all European decisions are made by their national politicians, and
wonder what their European politicians are doing", complained Wilfred Martens, a
former Belgian Prime Minister, who is president of the Parliament's centre-right
European People's Party grouping.

Graham Watson, a British MEP, who is leader of the Liberal group, said that
national politicians should be more honest with the public about where the real
power lies. "Let the national political class be honest that nearly 70 per cent
of the laws they pass now start in Brussels," he said.

The European Commission, the EU's powerful executive body, argued that the
election results proved the need to remove national vetoes on policy-making.
"You may argue that majority voting is a loss of sovereignty, but we say it is a
way of deciding things in the most open and democratic way," the chief spokesman
for Romano Prodi, the European Commission President, said.

The constitution, which leaders hope to agree on Friday, will lead to the
removal of national vetos in around 30 more policy areas.

Despite polls showing strong British opposition to the constitution, and UKIP's
success, Mr Straw insisted that the Government could win a referendum on it.
"One clear message is that voters across Europe, including in the United
Kingdom, want a European Union that works better in their interests. That's the
purpose of the draft constitutional treaty," the Foreign Secretary said.

The reaction of Europe's political leaders to the election results left
Eurosceptics warning of disaster.

Jens-Peter Bonde, the Danish MEP who leads the Parliament's Eurosceptic
grouping, said: "If Brussels makes decisions that people feel they can better
make themselves, they start to feel abused. That is the lesson from the
election, but it is not a lesson they want to learn. If they want a revolution,
they should push ahead with the constitution."


LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION:  In para 9 (on turnout): NOT Italy, which had a record turnout, as
shown in 'Elections overview, p14.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              329 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 14, 2004

KICKED IN THE TEETH

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_4TH; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1153 words


THE Tories were reeling last night after the UK Independence Party made big
gains in the European elections at their expense.

UKIP's campaign to pull Britain out of the EU won a strong response as the votes
were counted from last Thursday's poll.

It was Michael Howard's Tories who paid the heaviest price as supporters
deserted in droves. UKIP's intervention prevented the Tories capitalising on
Labour's own abysmal performance, the worst in any poll since 1918.

UKIP took two of the seven seats in their stronghold of the South West, where
they came second to the Tories.

They also beat Labour and the Liberal Democrats in the South East, where they
took two of the ten seats, and the Eastern region, where they picked up another
two.

The anti-Brussels party won seats for the first time in both London and the
Yorkshire and Humber region. In both, their share of the vote doubled.

For a party which had gone into the election with just three MEPs, it was a
startling triumph. Despite being dismissed by the mainstream parties as 'fringe'
and ' extremist,' UKIP had shown that their anti-European, anti-immigration
message can strike a powerful chord with voters.

The UKIP gains hit the Tories hard, with initial results showing a nine-point
fall in the Conservative share of the vote. A BBC projection after six regions
had declared suggested the Tories would finish with 28 per cent, close to their
worst election result ever.

But the projection also showed Labour would end up with just 23 per cent.

UKIP were running neck and neck with the Lib-Dems on 15 per cent.

It was a bitterly disappointing showing for Mr Howard in his first electoral
test as Tory leader. He had been riding high after the Tories strong showing in
Thursday's local council elections when they topped the poll with 38 per cent.

But he was brought down to earth with a bump by UKIP's march into the Tory
heartlands, led by high-profile converts such as Robert Kilroy-Silk and Joan
Collins.

Mr Howard had hoped to consolidate the Tory position with a General Election
expected less than a year from now.

Instead, he has lost ground badly.

He is now certain to come under intense pressure from hardline Tory MPs to
produce a more aggressively Eurosceptic policy.

That, in turn, would tear open old divisions on Europe in the party.

But last night's verdict also creates a huge headache for the Prime Minister.

Mr Blair travels to Brussels on Thursday to try to finalise the new EU
constitution, knowing that millions of British voters are not only opposed to
any further integration but want to pull out of the EU completely.

The result is also a major blow to his chance of winning the forthcoming
referendum vote on the constitution.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who won his own ticket to Strasbourg when UKIP secured two of
the six seats in the East Midlands region, said the voters had shown 'they want
their country back from Brussels'.

He added: 'The British people have put their trust in us, we will not let them
down'. The former TV presenter had already warned Mr Blair not to sign up to the
constitution. 'I think this is highly sigtonificant for the Prime Minister,'
said Mr Kilroy-Silk.

'He has had seven years to persuade the British people that they need to be
somewhere called the heart of Europe. Clearly, the British people don't want to
be there with him. He'll be there by himself.

'This will be a tremendous snub to him.

He cannot go ahead this week and sign up to the new constitution if there is a
significant number of people voting for UKIP. He would be treating the
electorate with contempt.' Tory co- chairman Liam Fox said Labour had taken the
lowest share of the vote by any governing party in British history.

He said the Eurosceptic vote won by the Tories and UKIP showed that the public
wanted no further integration into Europe and Tony Blair 'has no moral mandate
to give more of our powers away.' Early today, UKIP also won their first North
West seat.

Both Tories and Labour will hope that UKIP's strong showing is a midterm
'punishment' vote by an electorate disenchanted with the main parties as well as
hostile to the EU and that more traditional politics will reassert itself at the
General Election.

Former Tory chairman Lord Tebbit, an outspoken Eurosceptic, said he understood
why people voted for UKIP but warned that by taking votes from the Tories they
were simply playing into Labour's hands.

He said: 'I think voting UKIP, for a lot of Conservative voters, is a way of
firing a shot across the bows of the Conservative Party. The trouble is that if
they are not careful they could fire it a bit close to the waterline.

'UKIP is in many ways an emotional spasm, much as I understand the views of the
people. It is also a damn nuisance.

'What they are doing actually is ensure that Blair will be representing us in
the Council of Ministers and not Howard. They should ask themselves which they
want.' But former Tory Chancellor Kenneth Clarke, who is pro- EU, warned Mr
Howard against taking a more Eurosceptic line.

He said: 'The great thing I would say is for heaven's sake don't panic in the
face of a protest vote in the European elections at a time when a lot of the
population are in a mood to protest against the state of politics anyway.

'To start haring after Robert Kilroy-Silk's vote would be a complete disaster.'
The pattern of gains for Eurosceptic parties was repeated across the community,
even in the new member states of Poland and the Czech Republic.

But turnout fell to an all-time low dragged down by unexpected apathy in most of
the new members.

Former Tory deputy premier Lord Heseltine branded UKIP a 'lunatic fringe' whose
policies spelt disaster for Britain.

But he also conceded that the Tories must take some blame for fostering negative
attitudes towards Europe. He said: 'Lady Thatcher began the process.

'Although she actually shared more of our sovereignty with Europe than any
British Prime Minister before or since, incomparably more, from her gut she
didn't like them.' Lord Heseltine added: 'Quite frankly, UKIP's policies are
just incomprehensible.

'They've suddenly become populist, they've got big names but they say the most
simplistic things.

It's really immensely depressing.' Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy said the
Tories had only themselves to blame for the rise of UKIP because of their
ambivalent attitude to Europe over the years.

He said: 'They have spent years trying to run with the hare and hunt with the
hounds where Europe is concerned and they are now going to be caught out by the
voters and deservedly so.' Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott insisted that
Labour could bounce back to win the next General Election. By then, he said,
issues like health, education and the economy would be crucial.

Comment Page 12

END

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              330 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 14, 2004

Howard holds centre ground and must stick to it

BYLINE: EDWARD HEATHCOAT AMORY

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 724 words


ONE prediction proved correct. The elections were every bit as confusing as
promised.

But out of the muddle has come a surprising political clarity.

It was incontrovertibly a terrible weekend for the Labour Government. Mr Blair
has a potentially terminal case of the midterm blues, and with the General
Election expected next year, not much time to do anything about them.

Some will claim that it was a disaster for the Tories as well.

In the European elections, they lost many of their voters to UKIP, and their
share of the vote projected at 28 per cent after early results last night fell
well below the 36 per cent William Hague managed in 1999.

In the council contests, they failed to make a decisive breakthrough in the
North, where the anti-Government vote gravitated to the Liberal Democrats.

But the electorate aren't going to vote for UKIP next year. It remains a fringe
repository for the protest vote, despite having learnt some cheap lessons about
publicity from the likes of Robert Kilroy-Silk and Joan Collins. Nothing that we
saw of the party and its leaders suggests that they have the capacity to become
serious political contenders.

Their success does nothing more than make it ever clearer to Mr Blair just how
difficult it would be to win a referendum on the European constitution.

Anyone sensible who voted UKIP last week will give Michael Howard their vote in
a contest for the Westminster Parliament, a calculation which, exit polls
suggest, gives the Tories 42 per cent of the vote and has Sandra Howard ordering
new curtains for her stay in Downing Street.

The council election results were a better guide to the likely outcome at a
General Election, with the Tories on 38 per cent, Labour 26 per cent, LibDems 29
per cent. If these figures were repeated next year, they would leave Mr and Mrs
Howard within a whisker of Downing Street.

It isn't as simple as that, of course.Turnout at these elections was around 40
per cent much lower than a General Election.

Labour strategists will be hoping that many disillusioned supporters who sat on
their hands last Thursday can be persuaded to turn out for Tony next year.

After a result this bad, of course, there will be those within the Labour Party
who believe that Mr Blair is no longer the man to lead them into the next
election. But they remain a minority and, although there may be a reshuffle, it
won't reach Downing Street.

The cleverest of the Blairite spin-doctors are now attempting to blame the
election collapse almost entirely on the Iraq war.

They hope to convince voters to dismiss it as an isolated if worrying foreign
policy issue, and back Tony on his plans for reform of the public services. The
Prime Minister is planning a press conference tomorrow to talk about schools and
hospitals.

THIS IS a big lie, of course.

Voters are not just angry about Iraq, but also about the huge amounts of their
money that have been poured into schools and hospitals with nothing to show for
it. Iraq simply crystallized their concerns.

Which brings us back to the Tories. If they are to keep their momentum going,
and pick up the extra votes they will need to oust Mr Blair from Downing Street,
then the string of domestic policy announcements that are planned for the next
few months are going to have to include some distinctive and impressive new
ideas, that in particular make it clear to the voters just how the Conservatives
differ from Labour.

The Tory leader does have one advantage. UKIP is now protecting his right flank,
and as a result it is far more difficult for Labour to paint his party as an
extremist group their main electoral tactic since IDS was ditched.

Instead, the Conservatives appear to have retaken the centre ground of British
politics for the first time in many years.

The Tory leader must take care to hang on to that position, ignoring the
inevitable calls for a lurch to the Right from the small but influential group
within the Conservative universe that would rather remain ideologically pure
than win back power.

But this morning it is clear that if Michael Howard sticks to the centre path,
comes up with a good domestic policy agenda, and has a little luck, it could be
him, and not Gordon Brown, who finally ejects Mr Blair from No.10.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              331 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 14, 2004

An A-class triumph for B-list celebs

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 452 words


A FEW weeks ago, the UK Independence Party was firmly at the margins of
politics, with just three MEPs in Brussels who rarely bothered to vote.

Today it has stolen the European elections but how did UKIP gain such prominence
so quickly?

The first signs emerged in February when it was revealed that 83-year-old Devon
council tax rebel Elizabeth Winkfield was a party member.

Her support gave a hint of a wider national mood that Britons were dismayed with
Labour's handling of the European constitution but felt Michael Howard's
Conservatives were not Eurosceptic enough.

Then came a bigger coup. In April, UKIP supporter the Earl of Bradford recruited
the sacked BBC host Robert Kilroy-Silk as a candidate for East Midlands.

His popularity from nearly two decades on daytime TV, his appetite for
self-publicity, and his controversial comments about Arabs, suddenly put UKIP
into the headlines.

At about the same time it emerged that publicist Max Clifford was handling some
of the party's media operations.

By May, Joan Collins was on board. Five Conservative peers, ex-England cricketer
Geoff Boycott and the shamed ex-Cabinet minister Jonathan Aitken followed.

A poll at the end of last month showed UKIP had overtaken the Liberal Democrats
and stormed into third place. On June 1, Mr Howard took action by deriding By
Jane Merrick Political Reporter UKIP as 'extreme'. The serious business may have
begun last summer when it is said that UKIP's leader Roger Knapman met Bill
Clinton's former political adviser Dick Morris during a Mediterranean cruise and
recruited him as a strategist for the elections.

At the same time, signs were emerging that UKIP has an amateur and unsavoury
side.

It is claimed that one of its MEPs, Nigel Farage, has more of a penchant for
nights at lapdancing clubs than days dealing with Brussels politics.

There have also been rumours that the far-Right British National Party tried to
infiltrate UKIP's ranks although UKIP says it unmasked the plot earlier this
year, expelling six members.

Meanwhile, the money has trickled in. UKIP's Euro-election campaign was funded
by a Pounds 2million war chest, with donations from the Yorkshire millionaire
Paul Sykes and retired bookmaker Alan Bown.

The strategy, of taking Tory votes, worked spectacularly while Labour voters
also turned to UKIP.

Former Deputy Prime Minister Lord Heseltine said the Tories must shoulder some
of the blame.

Describing UKIP as a 'lunatic fringe' whose policies would spell disaster for
Britain, he added: 'They've suddenly become populist, they've got big names.
They say the most simplistic things. It's really immensely depressing.'

END

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              332 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 14, 2004

More than just a bloody nose

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 590 words


THE Government knew it was coming. The Conservatives knew it was coming. And the
UK Independence Party certainly knew it was coming.

But the scale of the success of UKIP in the European election reveals this was
more than an exercise in giving the big political parties a bloody nose.

No, this result shows beyond anyone's wildest imaginings the depth of bitterness
and impotent rage felt by the British people over the overweening and corrupting
influence of Brussels.

The electorate's decision is just like the local government polls first and
foremost a humiliating rebuff for Tony Blair.

No attempt to explain the results away Iraq midterm blues an even worse result
for the Tories can disguise the reality that this is a comprehensive rejection
of the Prime Minister's strategy of pushing Britain to the so-called 'heart of
Europe.' After all, what have we got to show for it so far? The lunacies of the
Common Agricultural Policy and the Common Fisheries Policy continue, as does the
obscene corruption and the torrent of nitpicking regulations that British
ministers are all too ready to endorse.

The final straw for many is that Mr Blair is negotiating an EU constitution
which will, even if the current draft is amended, surrender a raft of additional
powers to Brussels on areas including economic, social and trade policies
another huge stride towards a federal superstate.

Is it any surprise that the British no longer trust a politician who in one
breath claims the proposals 'do not alter the fundamental constitutional
relationship between the member states and the Union', and in the next, performs
a spectacularly cynical U-turn, accepting they are so far-reaching that they
need to be approved by a referendum.

All this should have given the Tories a unique opportunity for a resounding
victory. However, they too can take little comfort from a result in which their
representation in the European Parliament has slumped as traditional supporters
switched to UKIP in droves.

For the revolt reflects a deep frustration with a Conservative Party that has
talked tough while at the same time signing up to measures like the Single
European Act and the Maastricht Treaty.

This weekend's figures are a warning to them of just how much support the Tories
could lose if this approach does not change.

But they also have an opportunity here to create a policy that is both popular
and serves British interests to convince people that UKIP's policy of total
withdrawal is one of defeatism and despair and that this country's interests are
best served in a community where markets not sovereignty are shared, and where
the most effective way to achieve reform is by fighting vigorously from within.

Michael Howard must also stop New Labour from poisoning the debate on Europe by
saying that the rejection of the constitution in a referendum would cause
Britain to lose all its influence.

This is a myth after all Mr Blair's seven years at the heart of Europe have not
dented the federalist ambitions of Brussels one jot.

And Britain could hardly be less well off by fighting for its own interests
rather than compromising them.

The Tories have shown in the past that this policy can and does work when
Margaret Thatcher refused to compromise on Britain's right to a rebate in its
budget contributions.

Mr Howard's challenge is to convince voters that he has the same conviction and
ruthless determination to protect British interests in the European Union.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              333 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 14, 2004

Wake-upcall for ALL our politicians

BYLINE: MELANIE PHILLIPS

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1196 words



THE stunning success of the UK Independence Party in the Euro elections is much
more than a midterm protest vote for a political party which came from nowhere
and may soon vanish in the same direction. It quite simply changes the terms of
the political debate.

It delivers a wakeup call to our whole political class. For it does not merely
tell them that many British people are viscerally opposed to the EU project. It
registers a profound disillusionment with politics, because people think all
politicians are living on another planet altogether.

Europe is the classic example.

If euroscepticism is considered extreme, leaving the EU altogether is said to be
totally off the wall. Yet many British citizens have now voted for a party that
stands for precisely that.

As a result, Tony Blair's claim that eurosceptics secretly want Britain to leave
the EU - and are therefore barking mad - now looks less than clever.

For the election has shown that, far from this claim terrifying 'moderate'
eurosceptics out of their wits, that is precisely what is desired by a large
tranche of the electorate.

Whether or not UKIP is a collection of cranks is irrelevant. The vote is a
protest by people who for years have felt totally disenfranchised.

Politicians for whom it is an article of faith to position themselves on the
centre ground have not grasped that the centre of political gravity has shifted.

The centrist position is said to be to use our membership of the EU to get a
better deal for this country.

But bitter experience has taught British voters that this is a pipedream, not
least because of the ever-expanding rulings of the European Court of Justice and
the obliteration of Westminster's powers over large swathes of British public
life.

This upsurge in feeling is not an isolated British phenomenon.

All over Europe, populations have been frantically signalling that they do not
support the creation of a superstate. Such is the pressure that the EU
constitution may disintegrate even without Britain vetoing it.

In the light of the European election results in Britain and the wider mood in
Europe, Mr Blair might conclude, however, that the smart move would be to refuse
to sign up to the constitution this week and thus wrap himself in the mantle of
the principled defender of his famous 'red lines' and the national interest.

But the British vote for UKIP is about far more than the EU constitution. It is
a protest at the decline into irrelevance and incompetence of the very concept
of Britain as a nation.

It is thus closely related to the other protests delivered in the local
government elections last week. For the voters' fundamental message is that the
political class has simply lost the plot.

On public services, they don't think the Government is delivering. But since the
government repeatedly claims the public services are improving, this reinforces
the impression that it never tells the truth.

And this, surely, is the really lethal damage done to the Prime Minister by the
war in Iraq. For rightly or wrongly, many - including some who supported the war
- think Mr Blair did not tell people the truth about Iraq.

Perhaps even more damagingly, others believe he himself was misled. Rightly or
wrongly, people believe he went into that war as the junior partner to an
American president who walked all over him.

At the heart of this whole collection of protest votes is the feeling that the
very idea of the nation is being betrayed.

People believe that, over Iraq, the British government did not lead but was led,
against the interests of the nation. They also believe that the EU is destroying
the Government's powers to defend such interests, while on the domestic front
the Government is destroying those interests altogether.

Both Labour and the Tories are claiming that the other side has lost or failed
to gain the voters' trust. But the more the Tories try to paint Mr Blair as a
liar, the more the public remembers why it doesn't trust the Tories either.

For the overwhelming message of these elections is that people feel that no
mainstream party now speaks for them.

This is because, although the public has fallen badly out of love with Labour,
the Tories have so far failed to deliver a positive reason for voting for them.
To win public attention and support, a political party has to articulate the
galvanising issue of the moment.

That issue is nothing less than the threat to the democratic nation itself.

This threat takes a variety of forms.

There is the increasing threat posed by the EU to the power of self-government.
There is the threat of unlimited mass immigration and multiculturalism, which if
left unchecked will destroy national identity.

And there is the threat to the moral values underpinning this nation, as the
Government shatters our bedrock norms of respectability and responsibility.

The issue of the nation is a trap for Labour that it cannot easily escape.

This is because of what lies behind both its attack on this country's ancient
constitutionalconventions, and its fanatical zeal to subsume it into the heart
of the projected European superstate.

This is the Blairite belief that the self-governing nation state has had its day
because 'globalisation' means it can no longer make its own way in the world;
and that the idea of a majority culture expressing its values in its laws and
institutions is illegitimate.

It's the belief that the nation has to take second place to supranational
institutions and laws like the EU, the International Criminal Court or the Human
Rights Convention, whose values must trump anything the British people might
express through their own Parliament and courts.

Defending British democracy against this worldview is the big internal issue of
our time.

But the Tories have been very slow to grasp this.

Despite the undoubtedly impressive strides made under Michael Howard, they have
yet to articulate just why it is such an urgent priority to unseat the Blair
government, and why they should be trusted to do so.

To make this case, they have to present a vision which is far more profound than
the arguments over which party is the more daring in allowing the public a
modicum of freedom to spend their own money on the public services - which
frankly sounds like little more than angels dancing on the head of a pin.

They have to show us not only that they share the concern over the nation but,
in addition, exactly what they will do to protect it against the EU and the
supranational worldview.

They have to show that, far from undermining British democracy, America is our
principal ally in the struggle to defend it.

They will never do this if their main preoccupation is to avoid being painted as
'extreme'.

Voters reward courage, not cowardice; principle, not pusillanimity.

Only if the Tories raise their game in this way will they make the breakthrough
that still eludes them. There is an open goal in front of them.

The question is whether they yet have the self- confidence to see it.

m.phillips@dailymail.co.uk

END

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              334 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 14, 2004

Euro election results

SECTION: ED_4TH_04; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 1977 words


LONDON

C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .504,941 Lab . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .466,584 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .288,790 UKIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .232,633 Green . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .158,986
Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .91,175 BNP . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .76,152 CPA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .45,038 EDP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.15,945 PPBG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,205 MEPs
elected

Miss Theresa Villiers (C), John Bowis (C),

Charles Tannock (C), Claude Moraes

(Lab), Ms Mary Honeyball (Lab), Robert

Evans (Lab), Ms Sarah Ludford (LD), Ms

Jean Lambert (Green), Gerard Batten

(UKIP).

(1999 Majority: Lab 26477) Maj: 38357

Swing: 2.2% to C from Lab

Turnout 1,885, 449

NORTH EAST

County Durham; Darlington; Hartlepool;

Middlesbrough; Northumberland; Redcar &

Cleveland; Stockton-on-Tees;Tyne & Wear

Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .266,057 C . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .144,969 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .138,791 UKIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . .94,887 BNP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50,249 Ind
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39,658 Green . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37,247 Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .8,633 MEPs elected

Martin Callanan (C), Stephen Hughes (Lab),

Fiona Hall (LD).

(1999 Lab 57,000) Maj: 121,088

Swing: 0.4% to Lab from C

Turnout: 780, 491

WALES

Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .297,810 C . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .177,771 PC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . .159,888 UKIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .96,677 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .96,116
Green . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32,761 BNP . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27,135 Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .17,280 CDP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.6,821 Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,427 MEPs elected

Jonathan Evans (C), Ms Glenys Kinnock (Lab),

Ms Eluned Morgan (Lab), Ms Jill Evans (PC).

(1999 Lab 14455) Maj: 120039

Swing: 2.0% to Lab from C

Turnout: 917,686

YORKSHIRE & THE

HUMBER

East Riding of Yorkshire; Kingston-upon-Hull;

North East Lincolnshire; North Lincolnshire;

North Yorkshire; South Yorkshire;West

Yorkshire;York

Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .413,213 C . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .387,369 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .244,607 UKIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .228,666 BNP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126,538 Green
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .90,337 Respect . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29,865 EDP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .24,068 ND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14,762
AGS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13,776 MEPs elected

Timothy Kirkhope (C), Edward McMillan-

Scott (C), Ms Linda McAvan (Lab),

Richard Corbett (Lab), Ms Diana Wallis

(LD), Godfrey Bloom (UKIP).

(1999 C 39629) Maj: 25844

Swing: 3.5% to Lab from C

Turnout: 1,573,201

SOUTH WEST

Bath & North East Somerset; Bournemouth;

Bristol; Cornwall; Devon; Dorset;

Gloucestershire; North Somerset; Plymouth;

Poole; Scilly Isles; Somerset; South

Gloucestershire; Swindon;Torbay;Wiltshire

C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .457,371 UKIP . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .326,784 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .265,619 Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .209,908 Green . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103,821 BNP .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43,653 Countryside . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30,824 Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . .10,437 MEPs elected

Neil Parish (C), Mrs Caroline Jackson (C),

Giles Chichester (C), Glyn Ford (Lab),

Graham Watson (LD), Graham Booth

(UKIP), Roger Knapman (UKIP).

(1999 C 246283) Maj: 130587

Swing: 11.0% to UKIP from C

Turnout: 1,448,417

SOUTH EAST

Bracknell Forest; Brighton & Hove;

Buckinghamshire; East Sussex; Hampshire;

Isle of Wight; Kent; Medway; Milton Keynes;

Oxfordshire; Portsmouth; Reading; Slough;

Southampton; Surrey;West Berkshire;West

Sussex;Windsor & Maidenhead;Wokingham

C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776,370 UKIP . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431,111 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . 338,342 Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
301,398 Green . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 173,351 BNP . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64,877 Senior . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 42,861 EDP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 29,126 Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,426
Peace . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,572 CPA . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,733 Prolife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . 6,579 Ind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 5,671 MEPs elected

Daniel Hannan (C), Nirj Deva (C), James

Elles (C), Richard Ashworth (C), Peter

Skinner (Lab), Chris Huhne (LD), Ms Emma

Nicholson (LD), Ms Caroline Lucas (Green),

Nigel Farage (UKIP), Ashley Mote (UKIP).

(1999 C 369785) Maj: 345259

Swing: 9.5% to UKIP from C

Turnout: 2,207,417

EASTERN

Bedfordshire; Cambridgeshire; Essex;

Hertfordshire; Luton; Norfolk; Peterborough;

Southend-on-Sea; Suffolk;Thurrock

C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .465,526 UKIP . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .296,160 Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . .244,929 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .211,378 Ind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93,028
Green . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84,068 BNP . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .65,557 EDP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . .26,807 Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.13,904 Ind Naisbitt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,137 Prolife .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3,730 MEPs elected

Geoffrey Van Orden (C), Robert Sturdy (C),

Christopher Beazley (C), Richard Howitt

(Lab), Andrew Duff (LD), Jeffrey Titford

(UKIP), Tom Wise (UKIP).

(1999 C 174959) Maj: 169366

Swing: 11.3% to UKIP from C

Turnout: 1,510,224

WEST MIDLANDS

Herefordshire; Shropshire; Staffordshire;

Stoke-on-Trent;Telford & Wrekin;Warwickshire;

West Midlands Metropolitan County;

Worcestershire

C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .392,937 Lab . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .336,613 UKIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . .251,366 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .197,479 BNP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .107,794 Green
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .73,991 Respect . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34,704 Pensioners . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . .33,501 CG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8,650
MEPs elected

Philip Bushill-Matthews (C), Philip Bradbourn

(C), Malcolm Harbour (C), Michael Cashman

(Lab), Ms Neena Gill (Lab), Ms Liz Lynne

(LD), Mike Nattrass (UKIP).

(1999 C 84048) Maj: 56324

Swing: 3.0% to Lab from C

Turnout: 1,437,035

EAST MIDLANDS

Derby; Derbyshire; Leicester; Leicestershire;

Lincolnshire; Northamptonshire; Nottingham;

Nottinghamshire; Rutland

C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .371,362 UKIP . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .366,498 Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . .294,918 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .181,964 BNP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .91,860 Green
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .76,633 Respect . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20,009 Ind R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .2,615 Ind H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.847 MEPs elected

Roger Helmer (C), Chris Heaton-Harris (C),

Phillip Whitehead (Lab), Bill Newton Dunn

(LD), Robert Kilroy-Silk (UKIP), Derek Clark

(UKIP).

(1999 C 78906) Maj: 4864

Swing: 15.8% to UKIP from C

Turnout: 1,406,706

NORTH WEST

Blackburn-with-Darwen; Blackpool; Cheshire;

Cumbria; Greater Manchester; Halton;

Lancashire; Merseyside;Warrington

Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .576,388 C . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .509,446 LD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .335,063 UKIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .247,158 BNP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .134,958 Green
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .117,393 Lib . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .96,325 EDP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . .34,110 Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24,636
Countryside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11,283 Prolife . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10,084 Ind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .8,318 MEPs elected

Den Dover (C), David Sumberg (C), Sir

Robert Atkins (C), Gary Titley (Lab), Ms

Arlene McCarthy (Lab), Terry Wynn (Lab),

Chris Davies (LD), Saj Karim (LD), John

Whittaker (UKIP).

(1999 C 9516) Maj: 66942

Swing: 2.1% to Lab from C

Turnout: 2,105,162

KEY TO THE PARTIES

Conservative - C, Labour - Lab, Liberal Democrat - LD, Plaid Cymru - PC,
Scottish National Party - SNP, Green - Green Party, Account For Lower Scottish
Taxes - Lower Tax, Alliance for Green Socialism - AGS, Alternative Labour - Alt
Lab, Anti- Corruption Pro Family Christian Alliance - ACPFCA, Architect Human
Rights Peace In Europe - AHRPE, British National Party - BNP, Christian
Democratic Party - CDP, Christian Peoples Alliance - CPA, Countryside Party,
Countryside, English Democrats Party - EDP, English Freedom Party - EFP, Forward
Wales - Forward, Humanist Party - Humanist, Independent - Ind, Independent Anti
Value Added Tax - Anti VAT, Independent Halliday - Ind H, Independent Humanist
Party - Ind Hum, Independent Making A Profit In Europe - Ind Profit, Independent
Naisbitt - Ind Naisbitt, Independent Open Democracy For Stability - Ind Stable,
Independent Rogers - Ind R, Liberal - Lib, MEP Independent Labour - MEP Ind,
Natural Law Party - NLP, No Description - ND, Operation Christian Vote - OCV,
Peace Party - Non-violence, Justice, Environment - Peace, Pensioners Party -
Pensioners, People's Party for Better Government - PPBG, Pro Euro Conservative
Party - Pro Euro C,

Prolife - Prolife, Respect the Unity Coalition - Respect, Scottish Socialist
Party - SSP, Senior Citizens Party - Senior, Socialist Alliance - Soc All,
Socialist Labour Party - Soc Lab, Socialist Party of Great Britain - SPGB, The
Common Good - CG, The Hemp Coalition - Hemp, UK Independence Party - UKIP,
Weekly Worker - WW, Wind Watch - Wind Watch

END

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              335 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 14, 2004

Let's hope we learned enough last time for Coimbra to be spared

BYLINE: JEFF POWELL

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 1066 words


THE legendary New York columnist Red Smith had an answer for those who believe
that reporting glamorous events like Euro 2004 is a piece of cake on which any
fan would have little trouble cutting his teeth.

'Yeah, sportswriting is easy,' said Smith.

'All you have to do is sit in front of a typewriter until the beads of blood
break out on your forehead.' Not that we don't love doing it, of course.

But there are times when even the most dramatic or heartrending championships
are put into perspective by real tragedy occurring on their doorstep.

That's when we are required to turn our pens to matters of even weightier import
than David Beckham's latest tattoo or the sudden-death lottery of the penalty
shootout.

So it was 10 years ago this week for those of us billeted in Los Angeles during
the 1994 World Cup.

O.J. Simpson was the all-American hero, the All Star running back whose good
looks and epic performances on the football gridiron made him a natural for a
second career in the movies.

Until 10 years ago on Saturday, that is.

That was the night his beautiful ex-wife Nicole Brown and her friend Ron Goodman
were found slashed to death at her Hollywood home.

Five days later an extraordinary cavalcade drove slowly past our hotel windows.
O.J. was in the back of his white Ford Bronco being driven by a friend, heading
for the Mexican border with a bagful of dollars on the passenger seat and a
revolver to his head.

Behind him came a dozen or more police cars, their pursuit conducted at such low
speed that it was not so much a chase as a procession.

Soon after his surrender Orenthal James Simpson was charged with double murder,
allegedly committed in jealous rage.

THE United States came to a standstill for the duration of his televised trial,
watched with morbid fascination as his 'dream team' of lawyers set about
discrediting a racist detective investigating the case, then gasped in disbelief
as he was acquitted by a predominantly Afro-American jury.

In a subsequent civil trial he was found liable for Goldman's death. Since then
O.J. has been on the run. Not from the police but from paying the $ 33million
compensation awarded to the Brown and Goldman families - and in search of a new
life.

How far has he got? To a Miami suburb, where Florida law is more protective than
California's of his right as a parent to draw his $300,000-ayear pension as a
former footballer and to accept payment for personal appearances without having
to hand over the money to the Browns and Goldmans.

And now he is returning from the golf course, which has been his sanctuary from
accusing eyes, and into the public spotlight.

The U.S. television networks are screening O.J. interviews and documentary
specials.

Although the orange juice manufacturers are no longer queuing for him to
advertise their products, he has a reality TV show in the making which will take
for its title his nickname, Juice.

Celebrity is rarely the mother of morality. I was going to say this could happen
only in America but Britain is now so obsessed with celebrity that it is not
only good, honest men like Trevor Brooking who are knighted.

Ten years ago it was a tough, hot summer in America. Not only did O.J. go for a
drive but a drug-fuelled Diego Maradona was expelled from the World Cup. Then
Colombian defender Andres Escobar was assassinated for giving away the own goal
which lost a suspicious match against the hosts and eliminated his country and
its heavy-gambling drug barons from the tournament.

Major sports events tend to be stalked by tragedy, although not always in the
way that might have been expected.

SO WHILE football is on tenterhooks in case England's 50,000-strong army of
supporters erupt into violence and the team are sent home, there is no real
telling whether hooligans, terrorists or some force of nature might destroy
Portugal's festival of football.

It was the mother of all San Francisco earthquakes which obliged the reporting
of death at baseball's 1989 World Series. It was Black September terrorists who
massacred Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics, then an anarchist who
exploded his lethal bomb at the Atlanta Games.

Yet as a mortified eye -witness of far too many English football riots, I need
no reminding of the potential here for disgrace and disaster.

Four years ago it was our hooligans who went on the rampage in Belgium. Will
Coimbra on Thursday be the Charleroi of Euro 2004?

The importance of history is what we learn from it and how much of that
understanding we apply to making the world a better place.

Next May brings the 20th anniversary of the Heysel Stadium disaster. During the
next three weeks we shall discover how much we learned from that tragedy at the
Liverpool-Juventus European Cup Final.

We can but hope the answer will not run red with blood streaming from broken
foreheads on to the streets of Portugal's historic cities.

j.powell@dailymail.co.uk

Wee Frank in need of big Lennox

FRANK MALONEY - boxing promoter, longtime manager of Lennox Lewis and
incorrigible Cockney - came a most creditable fourth in the election for London
Mayor, polling well over 100,000 votes on behalf of the United Kingdom
Independence Party.

Who knows? Had Lewis, Britain ' s recently retired world heavyweight champion,
still been in wee Frank's corner Ken Livingstone might have been knocked out.

Footballers aren't in the best shape

EUROPE'S finest footballers have kicked off their championship in Portugal amid
claims that nearly all of them - England included - are fitter, stronger and
faster than they have ever been.

A study group of sports scientists, Olympic doctors, two-sport athletes and
university academics is not impressed.

Assembled by the ESPN sports channel in America to quantify the qualities which
make up the modern athlete - endurance, strength, speed, agility, flexibility,
nerve, durability, handto- eye co- ordination and an analytical brain - they
gave soccer an emphatic thumbs down.

Boxers, unsurprisingly, rank fittest.

Football (as we know it) scores a poor 10th in the wake of ice hockey, American
football, basketball, wrestling, martial arts, tennis, gymnastics and baseball.

Cheer up, lads. The pay's good and you're not the unfittest sportsmen of all.

Fishing comes bottom.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A WORD IN YOUR EAR: FRANK MALONEY FLIES THE FLAG DURING HIS DAYS AS
LENNOX LEWIS'S MANAGER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              336 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 14, 2004

KILROY'S PARTY STUNS LABOUR; EU'RE A WINNER

BYLINE: by MACER HALL, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 396 words


THE UK Independence Party have battered Labour by grabbing thousands of votes in
the Euro elections.

Last night's count suggested a massive breakthrough for the anti-EU hardliners.

UKIP raided support from Labour and the Tories and were on course to get up to
20 European Parliament seats.

The Euro poll heaped misery on Tony Blair after he suffered a blow at last
week's disastrous local council elections.

One Labour insider said: "Last week was a kicking but the European vote is even
worse."

A YouGov poll estimated that one in five voters had backed UKIP.

According to the survey, Labour and the Tories were each expected to get about
22% of votes.

The swing put UKIP's Robert Kilroy-Silk on the verge of launching a new career
as an MEP. And the former chat-show host is thought to have set his sights on a
Westminster seat for the emerging party, possibly standing at a forthcoming
by-election in Leicester.

The dreadful results heightened speculation about Mr Blair's future as worried
backbenchers fear the PM is becoming a vote loser.

But Mr Blair will tell a Westminster meeting of Labour MPs: "Back me or lose."

Last night, there was speculation that Labour Party Chairman Ian McCartney will
be sacked over the disastrous election results.

MPs privately blamed the tough-talking Scot for the flop of "negative" campaign
tactics that concentrated on attacking the Tories.

A Labour insider said: "McCartney cannot survive. He has had his chance and
blown it."

Labour fell to third place in last week's local elections, getting the
worst-ever result for a party in Government.

And a book has branded Mr Blair "tragic".

The biography of the Prime Minister - written by highlyrespected historian
Anthony Seldon - said Mr Blair was now "clinging on to power."

It also detailed huge rows between Mr Blair and Chancellor Gordon Brown.

The book alleged Mr Brown told the Prime Minister:

"F*** off, I want your job."

And the book claimed Mr Blair's wife Cherie referred to Gordon Brown as "that
bloody man".

But a pal of Mr Blair shrugged off the speculation about his future.

Lord Chancellor Lord Falconer claimed Mr Blair was certain to lead the party
into the next general election.

He said: "There is no doubt that we all want Tony and expect Tony to lead the
party into the next election."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              337 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Main parties rattled by UKIP surge in Euro poll Anti-EU party doubles share of
vote Tories and Labour take a battering

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 1100 words

THE UK Independence Party made significant gains in the European elections last
night and achieved the biggest breakthrough by a minor party for 25 years.

After 10 of the 12 regions had declared early today, the party had more than
doubled its share of the vote and increased its number of Euro-MPs from three to
12, establishing itself as a force in British political life for the first time.

Although it fell short of the spectacular advances predicted in some opinion
polls, UKIP candidates - who fought on a platform of withdrawal from the
European Union - took large numbers of votes away from the Conservatives.

In the East Midlands, Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television presenter who
has become the figurehead of UKIP, helped the party run the Conservatives a
close second.

Mr Kilroy-Silk will take one of his party's two seats in the European Parliament
for the region. The Tories won another two, while Labour and the Liberal
Democrats won one each.

After being elected, Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "As poll after poll has demonstrated,
voters want our country back from Brussels. They want it back from a corrupt,
dictatorial regime and we are going to get it back for them.

"The British people have sent a very clear message to the Prime Minister: you
have not been listening, you have not been taking our views into account."

In the South-West and South-East regions, UKIP also came second behind the
Tories. Its new Euro-MPs include the party's leader, Roger Knapman.

Labour was pushed into fourth place in both regions behind the Lib Dems.

In London, the first result to be declared, UKIP won its first Euro-MP in the
capital. It also secured a seat in Yorkshire and the Humber, and two seats in
the Eastern region.

The Conservatives appeared to have averted meltdown, but both the major parties
saw their share of the vote fall. The Lib Dems were the only major party to
increase their share.

While the initial results indicated that UKIP was not performing as strongly as
a survey carried out on polling day had suggested, its showing was strong for a
party dismissed at the start of the campaign as "cranks and political gadflies".

A YouGov poll for Sky News suggested UKIP would gain 20 per cent of the popular
vote, just behind the Tories and Labour. According to the poll, Labour would get
22 seats, the Tories 21, UKIP 18 and the Liberal Democrats 10.

Last night's results showed UKIP recording about 17 per cent of the vote, two
points ahead of the Liberal Democrats, and more than double the 6.9 per cent
share they achieved the last time the European elections were fought in 1999.

Turnout was about 39 per cent, a record, with postal voting in four regions.

During a chaotic night, with recounts in several regions, it was evident that
the Conservatives had taken a hit from the high-profile campaign run by UKIP.

The Tory vote was down by 10 per cent and Labour's had fallen by six per cent.

It was a sharp reversal of fortunes for the Conservatives who had a runaway
success at the last European elections. It also took the gloss off the Tory
achievements in last week's local elections in England and Wales, when the
Conservatives won 38 per cent of the vote.

Scotland and Northern Ireland will declare their results today. In Wales, UKIP
did not secure a seat, though the Conservatives managed to hang on to their one
seat.

The Conservative share of the vote was running at about 27 per cent. Anything
less than 29 per cent would be an embarrassment for Michael Howard because it
would be the Conservatives' worst result in an election since the First World
War.

Labour fared badly. Its share of the vote was running at 22 per cent, even lower
than the 26 per cent it achieved in the local elections last week.

Liam Fox, the Conservative Party co-chairman, said Labour had polled the lowest
share of the vote for any governing party in history. He said the clear message
was that the public did not want further integration in Europe.

Labour's share of the vote was only 0.5 per cent higher than the combined tally
of UKIP and the far-Right British National Party, which achieved five per cent
after eight regions had declared.

Together, the Conservatives and Labour were scoring well under half the total
vote - an unprecedented situation for the two main parties.

The last time the political establishment received such a jolt was when the
"Gang of Four" broke away from Labour in the early 1980s and founded the Social
Democratic Party.

The Conservative leadership has summoned all the party's MPs to a "council of
war" at Westminster tonight in an attempt to head off an outbreak of damaging
in-fighting over Europe.

During the campaign, Mr Howard sought to present the Conservatives as
representing the moderate mainstream of Europe - between UKIP on one extreme who
wanted to quit the EU and Labour and the Liberal Democrats who wanted to cede
further powers to Brussels.

The Tory leader is under pressure from Eurosceptics in his party to promise a
fundamental review of Britain's relationship with the EU to prevent a further
haemorrhaging of support to UKIP, which is threatening to put up candidates
against pro-European candidates at the next election.

Lord Tebbit, the strongly Eurosceptic former Tory party chairman, said voting
UKIP for a lot of Tory voters was "a way of firing a shot across the bows" of
the Conservative Party.

"The trouble is that if they are not careful they could fire it a bit close to
the waterline," he told Breakfast with Frost.

Kenneth Clarke, the pro-European former Conservative Chancellor, cautioned Mr
Howard against taking a more Eurosceptic line in response to the UKIP vote.

"The great thing I would say is for heaven's sake don't panic in the face of a
protest vote in the European elections at a time when a lot of the population
are in a mood to protest against the state of politics anyway," he told Sky
News.

After a weekend of recriminations over Labour's dismal performance in the local
elections - coming third behind the Liberal Democrats - the prospect of Tory
in-fighting over Europe provided some relief for Mr Blair.

The strength of the UKIP vote creates a longer-term headache for Mr Blair and
his referendum plans.

Although Mr Blair has promised to defend Britain's control over defence, foreign
policy, tax and social security, he is under pressure to make concessions.

But a strong showing by UKIP may well strengthen Mr Blair's hand in the
negotiations, because he will be able to argue that giving ground would make it
even more difficult to win a referendum.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              338 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Time to renegotiate with Brussels, Howard told Conservatives

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 609 words

MICHAEL Howard will come under pressure from leading Eurosceptics tonight to use
the results of the elections as an opportunity to back a "fundamental
renegotiation" of relations with Brussels.

Senior figures on the Right are putting the finishing touches to an appeal for a
comprehensive EU policy review following what looked likely to be a sharp drop
in Tory support in favour of the UK Independence Party. The leadership has
summoned all its MPs to what is likely to be a tumultuous "council of war" in
the Commons tonight in an attempt to head off a damaging outbreak of infighting
over Europe.

Liam Fox, the party co-chairman, will urge MPs to "hold their nerve" in the face
of a UKIP showing that risks overshadowing considerable Tory gains in last
Thursday's local and London elections. There were signs of an orchestrated
attempt to play down the implications of a slump in Tory support, with
frontbenchers taking to the airwaves to suggest the results would have no
long-lasting effects on the party's chances at the next general election.

Mr Howard believes that his position of standing firm against further
integration and seeking negotiated withdrawal from certain aspects of EU
membership has put the Tories in the centre ground of the debate. "If we want to
be taken seriously as a potential government, we have to adopt a position that
is in the national interest," an aide said.

David Willetts, the Tory head of policy, speaking before the results were known,
said: "Whatever happens tonight - the Conservative Party believes that it's in
Britain's interest to be members of the European Union."

But among Eurosceptics the scale of UKIP's success was being interpreted as a
convincing argument for hardening policy with a commitment to renegotiate all
the major European treaties.

They have been discussing for more than a week how to persuade Mr Howard to
harden his stance. A number of Eurosceptic MPs have been planning a
counter-attack against the party's minority of Euro-enthusiasts who have warned
against a Eurosceptic shift.

Bill Cash, the former shadow attorney general, said he and others would use
tonight's meeting and Wednesday's gathering of the 1922 Committee of backbenches
to argue for an overhaul of policy.

"This is an historic turning point," he said.

"The Conservative Party has now got to put the logic of its position against the
draft constitution into practice in specific areas. It has got to move to a
fundamental renegotiation of the treaties and take up this historic task, which
is to save the United Kingdom." He was equally dimissive of the leadership's
claim that the results were a "blip" and that many UKIP voters would return to
the Tories at the general election expected next year. "Given the critical mass
that UKIP has acquired it would be presumptuous in the extreme, unless we shift
the position, to assume that the voters would come back," he said.

But Sir Malcom Rifkind, the former foreign secretary, said UKIP was no more than
a nuisance. The number of voters who wanted British withdrawal was unchanged, he
said. "UKIP poses few if any dangers for the Tories at the general election."

Lord Tebbit, the Eurosceptic former Tory chairman, described UKIP as "an
emotional spasm" and accused Conservatives who voted UKIP of playing into the
hands of Tony Blair.

Kenneth Clarke, the pro-Europe former chancellor, cautioned Mr Howard against
taking a more eurosceptic line.

"For heaven's sake don't panic in the face of a protest vote in the European
elections at a time when a lot of the population are in a mood to protest
against the state of politics anyway," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              339 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Night of disaster and humiliation for Blair Labour

BYLINE: By Toby Helm and George Jones

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 2315 words

"LET the issue be put. Let the battle be joined." So said Tony Blair less than
eight weeks ago as he called pro-Europeans to arms against the forces of
Euroscepticism.

Announcing a referendum on the EU constitution, he said the time had come to
expose anti-EU myths as lies, and Eurosceptics as narrow Little Englanders.

Last night, as the United Kingdom Independence Party made strong gains, Mr Blair
must have been wondering whether his European war was a wise one to join. The
enemy turned out to be far bigger than he imagined.

Just before 10pm, as UKIP gained an early seat in London (one of its
traditionally weakest areas), its candidates were toasting a breakthrough for a
party that despises everything about the Blairite approach to Europe.

For a Prime Minister who entered Downing Street seven years ago promising to
make Britain a "leading player" in Europe and change national attitudes to the
EU, last night was a humiliation.

While Labour will try today to point even sharper falls in support for the
Tories, it cannot hide the disaster these elections represent for the Blairite,
pro-European brand.

The governing party was forced into an embarrassing fourth place in the South
East and South West - in both of which UKIP came second.

The pro-European vote held up for the Liberal Democrats but not for Labour.
After most of the results were through Labour's share of the vote had fallen
from 28 per cent in 1999 to 22 per cent.

In the early hours of this morning Lord Falconer, the Constitutional Affairs
Secretary, admitted it was "not a good result" for Labour.

He valiantly tried to maintain, however, that the "real story" was that the
Conservatives, who should have been surging ahead, were well down on their 36
per cent share of the vote from 1999. Richard Spring, the Conservatives'
spokesman on Europe, said the votes showed that Mr Blair had "no right" to go to
a Brussels summit this week to sign up to an EU constitution that people did not
want.

In anticipation of last night's results, Labour heavyweights were out in force
trying to help Mr Blair before a party inquest into its worst electoral
performances since he became leader.

Today, he will address Labour MPs at Westminster and insist that he is right on
the big issues - Iraq, Europe, the economy and public services. The message will
be that the party should "hold its nerve".

But the atmosphere is bound to be tense, with many MPs wondering if Mr Blair has
become a liability. Yesterday, senior ministers swamped the airwaves to try to
prevent a "Blair must go" bandwagon getting on the road.

Even Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, who is itching to take over from Mr Blair,
played the loyalist card.

Asked on GMTV if Mr Blair had become an electoral liability, Mr Brown replied:
"I don't accept that at all. Tony Blair won for Labour with his leadership the
1997 and 2001 election, and one must not forget these were the best Labour
election results ever."

John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, interviewed on Breakfast with Frost on
BBC Television, put last Thursday's poor results down to the "shadow" of Iraq
and normal mid-term blues.

Asked whether Mr Blair would lead Labour into the next election, he said: "Tony
will be in there, we'll be backing him and with the support of the electorate
we'll win, obviously."

But Mr Blair's die-hard critics, led by Clare Short, who resigned from the
Cabinet after the Iraq war, renewed their demands for him to quit and make way
for Mr Brown.

The vast majority of Labour MPs, however, want a change of course rather than
leader.

The likes of Robin Cook, the former foreign secretary who resigned over Iraq,
are demanding that Mr Blair find some way of saying "sorry" for the war and
reassuring the party that he will never again so doggedly follow the United
States lead.

But apologising for Iraq would be difficult. The Prime Minister still believes
he was morally right to have deposed Saddam Hussein. Cabinet ministers are,
however, laying the ground for some sort of mea culpa.

They believe the inquiry led by Lord Butler, the former Cabinet Secretary, into
the handling of intelligence before the war, could give Mr Blair an opportunity
to admit that the Government - while it acted in good faith - may have got some
things wrong.

Labour is also facing up to three parliamentary by-elections. If it continues to
haemorrhage support, MPs swept into Parliament in 2001 may panic.

Many on the Left have tolerated Mr Blair because he was an election winner. If
he has lost that golden touch, then the "tectonic plates" that Mr Prescott
identified last month really may start to move.

Results

London

Additional members elected: Theresa Villiers (C); John Bowis (C); Charles
Tannock (C); Claude Moraes (Lab); Mary Honeyball (Lab); Robert Evans (Lab);
Sarah Ludford (LD); Jean Lambert (Green); Gerard Batten (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 504,941 (26.78%)

Lab 466,584 (24.75%)

LD 288,790 (15.32%)

UKIP 232,633 (12.34%)

Green 158,986 (8.43%)

Respect 91,175 (4.84%)

BNP 76,152 (4.04%)

CPA 45,038 (2.39%)

EDP 15,945 (0.85%)

PPBG 5,205 (0.28%)

Electorate 5,054,957. Turnout 37.30%.

1999: Lab maj 26,477 (2.32%); Turnout 1,141,225 (23.10%); Lab 399,466 (35.00%);
C 372,989 (32.68%); LD 133,058 (11.66%); Green 87,545 (7.67%); UKIP 61,741
(5.41%); Soc Lab 19,632 (1.72%); BNP 17,960 (1.57%); Lib 16,951 (1.49%); Pro
Euro C 16,383 (1.44%); AHRPE 4,851 (0.43%); Anti VAT 2,596 (0.23%); Humanist
2,586 (0.23%); Hemp 2,358 (0.21%); NLP 2,263 (0.20%); WW 846 (0.07%).

North East (County Durham; Darlington; Hartlepool; Middlesbrough;
Northumberland; Redcar & Cleveland; Stockton-on-Tees; Tyne & Wear)

Additional members elected: Martin Callanan (C); Stephen Hughes (Lab); Fiona
Hall (LD).

Party Share:

Lab 266,057 (34.09%)

C 144,969 (18.57%)

LD 138,791 (17.78%)

UKIP 94,887 (12.16%)

BNP 50,249 (6.44%)

Ind 39,658 (5.08%)

Green 37,247 (4.77%)

Respect 8,633 (1.11%)

Electorate 1,911,562. Turnout 40.83%.

1999: Lab maj 57,000 (14.78%); Turnout 385,741 (19.74%); Lab 162,573 (42.15%); C
105,573 (27.37%); LD 52,070 (13.50%); UKIP 34,063 (8.83%); Green 18,184 (4.71%);
Soc Lab 4,511 (1.17%); BNP 3,505 (0.91%); Pro Euro C 2,926 (0.76%); SPGB 1,510
(0.39%); NLP 826 (0.21%).

Yorkshire & The Humber (East Riding of Yorkshire; Kingston-upon-Hull; North East
Lincolnshire; North Lincolnshire; North Yorkshire; South Yorkshire; West
Yorkshire; York)

Additional members elected: Timothy Kirkhope (C); Edward McMillan-Scott (C);
Linda McAvan (Lab); Richard Corbett (Lab); Diana Wallis (LD); Godfrey Bloom (
UKIP).

Party Share:

Lab 413,213 (26.27%)

C 387,369 (24.62%)

LD 244,607 (15.55%)

UKIP 228,666 (14.54%)

BNP 126,538 (8.04%)

Green 90,337 (5.74%)

Respect 29,865 (1.90%)

EDP 24,068 (1.53%)

ND 14,762 (0.94%)

AGS 13,776 (0.88%)

Electorate 3,694,415. Turnout 42.58%.

1999: C maj 39,629 (5.33%); Turnout 744,067 (19.75%); C 272,653 (36.64%); Lab
233,024 (31.32%); LD 107,168 (14.40%); UKIP 52,824 (7.10%); Green 42,604
(5.73%); Alt Lab 9,554 (1.28%); BNP 8,911 (1.20%); Pro Euro C 8,075 (1.09%); Soc
Lab 7,650 (1.03%); NLP 1,604 (0.22%).

Wales

Additional members elected: Jonathan Evans (C); Glenys Kinnock (Lab); Eluned
Morgan (Lab); Jill Evans (PC).

Party Share:

Lab 297,810 (32.45%)

C 177,771 (19.37%)

PC 159,888 (17.42%)

UKIP 96,677 (10.53%)

LD 96,116 (10.47%)

Green 32,761 (3.57%)

BNP 27,135 (2.96%)

Forward 17,280 (1.88%)

CDP 6,821 (0.74%)

Respect 5,427 (0.59%)

Electorate 2,218,649. Turnout 41.36%.

1999: Lab maj 14,455 (2.31%); Turnout 626,425 (28.33%); Lab 199,690 (31.88%); PC
185,235 (29.57%); C 142,631 (22.77%); LD 51,283 (8.19%); UKIP 19,702 (3.15%);
Green 16,146 (2.58%); Pro Euro C 5,834 (0.93%); Soc Lab 4,283 (0.68%); NLP 1,621
(0.26%).

South West (Bath & North East Somerset; Bournemouth; Bristol; Cornwall; Devon;
Dorset; Gloucestershire; North Somerset; Plymouth; Poole; Scilly Isles;
Somerset; South Gloucestershire; Swindon; Torbay; Wiltshire)

Additional members elected: Neil Parish (C); Caroline Jackson (C); Giles
Chichester (C); Glyn Ford (Lab); Graham Watson (LD); Graham Booth (UKIP); Roger
Knapman (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 457,371 (31.58%)

UKIP 326,784 (22.56%)

LD 265,619 (18.34%)

Lab 209,908 (14.49%)

Green 103,821 (7.17%)

BNP 43,653 (3.01%)

Countryside 30,824 (2.13%)

Respect 10,437 (0.72%)

Electorate 3,852,708. Turnout 37.59%.

1999: C maj 246,283 (23.63%); Turnout 1,042,387 (27.81%); C 434,645 (41.70%);
Lab 188,362 (18.07%); LD 171,498 (16.45%); UKIP 111,012 (10.65%); Green 86,630
(8.31%); Lib 21,645 (2.08%); Pro Euro C 11,134 (1.07%); BNP 9,752 (0.94%); Soc
Lab 5,741 (0.55%); NLP 1,968 (0.19%).

South East (Bracknell Forest; Brighton & Hove; Buckinghamshire; East Sussex;
Hampshire; Isle of Wight; Kent; Medway; Milton Keynes; Oxfordshire; Portsmouth;
Reading; Slough; Southampton; Surrey; West Berkshire; West Sussex; Windsor &
Maidenhead; Wokingham)

Additional members elected: Daniel Hannan (C); Nirj Deva (C); James Elles (C);
Richard Ashworth (C); Peter Skinner (Lab); Chris Huhne (LD); Emma Nicholson
(LD); Caroline Lucas (Green); Nigel Farage (UKIP); Ashley Mote (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 776,370 (35.17%)

UKIP 431,111 (19.53%)

LD 338,342 (15.33%)

Lab 301,398 (13.65%)

Green 173,351 (7.85%)

BNP 64,877 (2.94%)

Senior 42,861 (1.94%)

EDP 29,126 (1.32%)

Respect 13,426 (0.61%)

Peace 12,572 (0.57%)

CPA 11,733 (0.53%)

Prolife 6,579 (0.30%)

Ind 5,671 (0.26%)

Electorate 6,048,349. Turnout 36.50%.

1999: C maj 369,785 (24.82%); Turnout 1,490,069 (24.95%); C 661,931 (44.42%);
Lab 292,146 (19.61%); LD 228,136 (15.31%); UKIP 144,514 (9.70%); Green 110,571
(7.42%); Pro Euro C 27,305 (1.83%); BNP 12,161 (0.82%); Soc Lab 7,281 (0.49%);
NLP 2,767 (0.19%); Ind Stable 1,857 (0.12%); Ind Profit 1,400 (0.09%).

Eastern (Bedfordshire; Cambridgeshire; Essex; Hertfordshire; Luton; Norfolk;
Peterborough; Southend-on-Sea; Suffolk; Thurrock)

Additional members elected: Geoffrey Van Orden (C); Robert Sturdy (C);
Christopher Beazley (C); Richard Howitt (Lab); Andrew Duff (LD); Jeffrey Titford
(UKIP); Tom Wise (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 465,526 (30.82%)

UKIP 296,160 (19.61%)

Lab 244,929 (16.22%)

LD 211,378 (14.00%)

Ind 93,028 (6.16%)

Green 84,068 (5.57%)

BNP 65,557 (4.34%)

EDP 26,807 (1.78%)

Respect 13,904 (0.92%)

Ind Naisbitt 5,137 (0.34%)

Prolife 3,730 (0.25%)

Electorate 4,137,374. Turnout 36.50%.

1999: C maj 174,959 (17.59%); Turnout 994,438 (24.74%); C 425,091 (42.75%); Lab
250,132 (25.15%); LD 118,822 (11.95%); UKIP 88,452 (8.89%); Green 61,334
(6.17%); Lib 16,861 (1.70%); Pro Euro C 16,340 (1.64%); BNP 9,356 (0.94%); Soc
Lab 6,143 (0.62%); NLP 1,907 (0.19%).

West Midlands (Herefordshire; Shropshire; Staffordshire; Stoke-on-Trent; Telford
& Wrekin; Warwickshire; West Midlands Metropolitan County; Worcestershire)

Additional members elected: Philip Bushill-Matthews (C); Philip Bradbourn (C);
Malcolm Harbour (C); Michael Cashman (Lab); Neena Gill (Lab); Liz Lynne (LD);
Mike Nattrass (UKIP).

Party Share:

C 392,937 (27.34%)

Lab 336,613 (23.42%)

UKIP 251,366 (17.49%)

LD 197,479 (13.74%)

BNP 107,794 (7.50%)

Green 73,991 (5.15%)

Respect 34,704 (2.41%)

Pensioners 33,501 (2.33%)

CG 8,650 (0.60%)

Electorate 3,996,130. Turnout 35.96%.

1999: C maj 84,048 (9.90%); Turnout 848,684 (21.21%); C 321,719 (37.91%); Lab
237,671 (28.00%); LD 95,769 (11.28%); UKIP 49,621 (5.85%); Green 49,440 (5.83%);
MEP Ind 36,849 (4.34%); Lib 14,954 (1.76%); BNP 14,344 (1.69%); Pro Euro C
11,144 (1.31%); Soc All 7,203 (0.85%); Soc Lab 5,257 (0.62%); EFP 3,066 (0.36%);
NLP 1,647 (0.19%).

East Midlands (Derby; Derbyshire; Leicester; Leicestershire; Lincolnshire;
Northamptonshire; Nottingham; Nottinghamshire; Rutland)

Additional members elected: Roger Helmer (C); Chris Heaton-Harris (C); Phillip
Whitehead (Lab); Bill Newton Dunn (LD); Robert Kilroy-Silk (UKIP); Derek Clark (
UKIP).

Party Share:

C 371,362 (26.40%)

UKIP 366,498 (26.05%)

Lab 294,918 (20.97%)

LD 181,964 (12.94%)

BNP 91,860 (6.53%)

Green 76,633 (5.45%)

Respect 20,009 (1.42%)

Ind R 2,615 (0.19%)

Ind H 847 (0.06%)

Electorate 3,241,566. Turnout 43.40%.

1999: C maj 78,906 (10.90%); Turnout 723,733 (22.83%); C 285,662 (39.47%); Lab
206,756 (28.57%); LD 92,398 (12.77%); UKIP 54,800 (7.57%); Green 38,954 (5.38%);
Alt Lab 17,409 (2.41%); Pro Euro C 11,359 (1.57%); BNP 9,342 (1.29%); Soc Lab
5,528 (0.76%); NLP 1,525 (0.21%).

Key to parties: Conservative - C; Labour - Lab; Lib Dems - LD; Plaid Cymru Green
- PC; Alliance for Green Socialism - AGS; Alternative Labour - Alt Lab;
Anti-Corruption Pro Family Christian Alliance - ACPFCA; Architect Human Rights
Peace In Europe - AHRPE; British National Party - BNP; Christian Democratic
Party - CDP; Christian Peoples Alliance - CPA; Countryside Party - Countryside;
English Democrats Party - EDP; English Freedom Party - EFP; Forward Wales -
Forward; Humanist Party - Humanist; Independent - Ind; Independent Anti Value
Added Tax - Anti VAT; Independent Halliday - Ind H; Independent Humanist Party -
Ind Hum; Independent Making A Profit In Europe - Ind Profit; Independent
Naisbitt - Ind Naisbitt; Independent Open Democracy For Stability - Ind Stable;
Independent Rogers - Ind R; Liberal - Lib; MEP Independent Labour - MEP Ind;
Natural Law Party - NLP; No Description - ND; Operation Christian Vote - OCV;
Peace Party - Non-violence, Justice, Environment - Peace; Pensioners Party -
Pensioners; People's Party for Better Government - PPBG; Pro Euro Conservative
Party - Pro Euro C; Prolife - Prolife; Respect the Unity Coalition - Respect;
Senior Citizens Party - Senior; Socialist Alliance - Social All; Socialist
Labour Party - Social Lab; Socialist Party of Great Britain - SPGB; Common Good
- CG; Hemp Coalition - Hemp; UK Independence - UKIP; Weekly Worker - WW; Wind
Watch - Wind Watch

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              340 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Leaders start to flex their new-found muscles UKIP

BYLINE: By George Jones

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 05

LENGTH: 493 words

THE UK Independence Party will today start flexing its new-found political
muscles by calling on Tony Blair to veto plans for a new European constitution
on Friday.

The party has hired a poster lorry to tour Whitehall and Westminster with the
slogan: "Don't sign the constitution Tony. Britain says No."

The conjunction of the elections to the European Parliament and next week's
summit to finalise the EU's first constitution have worked to the UKIP's
advantage.

If Europe's leaders had wanted to give Euro scepticism a boost, they could have
hardly chosen a better moment to draw up plans for a further centralisation of
powers in Brussels.

Mark Croucher, a UKIP spokesman, said the party's success in the elections was a
clear message to Mr Blair from the voters not to sign up to the new
constitution.

"If Mr Blair has got the gall to agree to the EU constitution, it will fly in
the face of democracy after such a Eurosceptical result," Mr Croucher said.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television talk-show presenter who has become the
public face of UKIP and who ws elected in the East Midlands early today, said
signing up to a federal superstate would "show contempt for the British people".

The new UKIP European MPs and leading figures in the party will hold a strategy
meeting later today after a victory press conference at Westminster.

The main topic on the agenda will be how to maintain momentum and demonstrate
that their success was not just, as Lord Tebbit said somewhat dismissively
yesterday, an "emotional spasm". Consideration is already being given to
fielding a UKIP candidate in the Leicester South parliamentary by-election which
is expected next month.

Mr Kilroy-Silk could seek to capitalise on his success by standing there - or in
another possible by-election in Birmingham, Hodge Hill, if the sitting MP, Terry
Davis, goes off to a job at the Council of Europe. But Mr Kilroy-Silk may be
tempted to wait for the general election and stand against the prominent Tory
Europhile, Ken Clarke, in Rushcliffe, Notts.

UKIP may also play a role in referendums planned this autumn in three northern
regions - the North-West, the North-East and Yorkshire - on setting up regional
assemblies.

A number of lucky breaks have allowed UKIP to gain national prominence and shake
the political establishment.

The BBC's decision to sack Mr Kilroy-Silk from his morning talk show after
writing a newspaper article criticising Arab countries provided the party a
well-known and articulate figurehead.

And the EU constitution negotiations aroused a latent Euroscepticism in Britain,
while Labour - hoping to embarrass the Tories - sought to build up the threat
posed by the party.

According to the Tories, the party is made up of "cranks and gadflies". Welding
such a group into a disciplined political party will be a tough job for Mr
Kilroy-Silk, whose leadership ambitions have already ruffled feathers within the
party.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              341 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Kennedy crashes down to earth Lib Dems

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News; Euro elections: Pg. 05

LENGTH: 195 words

JUST as Charles Kennedy believed that the Liberal Democrats were breaking into
the political big time, the UK Independence Party has come along to spoil his
party.

Last Thursday's local elections in England and Wales were a historic moment for
the Liberal Democrats. The party took the second largest share of the vote,
pushing Labour into third place.

It was the first time in living memory that a governing party had come third in
a set of mid-term elections.

No wonder Mr Kennedy tried yesterday to keep attention focused on his party's
success in taking councils such as Newcastle.

But the unexpected success for the UKIP threatens to take the gloss off the
Liberal Democrats' success.

On Europe at least, the anti-Brussels party has ousted the Liberal Democrats as
the beneficiary of the mid-term protest vote. The Liberal Democrats have thrived
on being able to capitalise on disaffection with the two main parties,
particularly at by-elections.

Now that UKIP has gained a national profile - and shown that like the Lib Dems
it can attract support nationally - Mr Kennedy's second place joy may be short
lived. He may have to get used to coming fourth.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              342 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Old order shaken as the 'misfits' gain ground

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News Pg. 05

LENGTH: 676 words

EUROPE'S elites took a battering in elections across the European Union
yesterday as governing parties suffered heavy losses and Eurosceptics made their
first break- through.

Despite the allure of a "mega-democracy" of 350 million citizens in 25 countries
stretching from the Atlantic into the old Soviet Union, turnout was the worst
yet for European elections.

Just 44.6 per cent went to the polls, even though voting was obligatory in
several states.

Early indications last night were that centre-Right "conservatives" would
continue to hold the biggest bloc of the 732 MEPs, giving them a powerful say
over the legislative machine now responsible for half of Britain's new laws.

In theory, they could also veto the next Commission president, if he or she is
not to their liking.

But all eyes in Brussels were on the mix of Eurosceptic groups, anti-fraud
crusaders and East European populists poised to win scores of seats, shaking up
the cosy consensus of the EU establishment.

Long-mocked as a tiny rag-bag of "misfits", the rebels will be a formidable
presence with access to money, staff, their share of key posts, and the balance
of power at crucial moments.

While fragmented by their nature, they could begin to emerge as the EU's first
ever "Opposition" in a system that has always appeared a one-party monopoly on
the big issues of European integration.

The free-market Civic Democratic Party swept into first place in the Czech
Republic with about 31 per cent of the vote, winning 14 of the country's 24
seats with campaign promises to stop the country ceding its new-found freedom to
Brussels.

In Poland, the Samoobrona (Self-Defence) party of the firebrand Andrzej Lepper
was storming into second place last night, despite - or because of - wild
rhetoric comparing the EU's eastward expansion with the Nazi invasion of Poland
in 1939.

Along with the ultra-Catholic League of Families and the "Thatcherite" Law and
Justice Party, more than half of Poland's 54 MEPs will be fire-breathing
Eurosceptics.

But it is the rise of the UK Independence Party - in the EU's second biggest
economy and leading military power - that has most startled diplomats and EU
officials. They had tended to brush aside British opinion polls over the past
two weeks as implausible rogue predictions.

There was no unifying theme across the vast electorate - the world's biggest
after India - though governments paid a price in Italy, Holland, Denmark and
Poland for backing the Iraq war.

There seemed little consciousness that the European Parliament had changed
beyond recognition since its creation as a talking shop in 1979, acquiring
law-making clout over large areas of national life.

Under the new constitution it will gain further powers, with a full say over the
EU's pounds 70 billion budget, including spending on farming and regional aid,
and a growing role in foreign policy and justice.

Mostly, it seemed as if each nation lived in a separate political universe,
frustrating those searching for signs of a nascent EU-wide democracy, even one
hampered by a Babel of 20 official languages.

Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's Social Democrats were routed in the worst defeat
of the post-war era, falling to about 21 per cent in Germany where the fragile
economy seems on the brink of stalling yet again.

Bizarrely, France was gripped by the issue of Turkey's EU accession, which is 10
years off at the earliest. Italy's vote was a referendum on Silvio Berlusconi's
alleged "Putsch" against the judiciary.

Lacking credible parties with historic roots, the East Europeans used their
first vote as EU citizens to pick celebrity candidates.

But, mostly, apathy reigned. Turnout in the former Warsaw Pact looked headed for
only 28.7 per cent.

Elsewhere, Sinn Fein looked certain to win at least two seats - on both sides of
the Irish border - with a strident campaign against the EU constitution and the
defence ambitions of Brussels.

In Holland, the whistle- blower Paul van Buitenen won two seats with his new
Europa Transparant party.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              343 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Europhiles are their own worst enemy Notebook

BYLINE: By W.F. Deedes

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 18

LENGTH: 591 words

Before the Eurosceptics are rebuked by Europhiles for voting so
unenthusiastically, and - it will be said - so damagingly to Britain's prospects
in Europe, let us get one thing clear. It is the ardent, blinkered architects of
federal Europe who do most damage to the European cause.

Don't blame the UK Independence Party for upsetting the applecart. It is
Europe's planners insisting, for example, that we must abandon summer timetables
for our trains that poison the wells for Europe.

They are such bad psychologists in Europe, so slow to grasp that in all
democracies the art of politics is persuasion. Perhaps that is because democracy
in Europe isn't working.

I keep a list, far too long to publish here, of proposals coming from Brussels
that seem designed to stir antagonism in the breasts not only of what are rudely
called Little Englanders but European patriots everywhere.

I have always accepted that if we are to have the benefits of a free-trade
European bloc, then we must all conform to certain rules. But that does not
confer on Brussels the right to get bossy on a vast range of human affairs that
are not relevant to fair trading. Europe's strongest protagonists are Europe's
worst propagandists.  .* AMERICANS, who have clung to their religion more
successfully than we have, find it easier than we do to summon a touch of
reverence when someone like Ronald Reagan dies. It helps them to accept that
death draws a certain line under the past.

And most American commentators take their cue from what they sense is going
through most people's hearts. Here, when a good man or woman dies we tend more
to take our cue from the commentators who are less sensitive. As witness the
headline over the Guardian's main article about Reagan on the day of his
funeral: "He lied and cheated in the name of anti-communism." .* FULL marks to
the Guardian, though, for having the courage to print this letter from a reader:
"Moaning about fuel prices? Try removing the flag from the top of your car - it
cuts down drag and improves fuel economy. And you no longer look a complete
wally."

I hope that the writer of such a letter is enjoying police protection.  .*
IMMIGRATION, we reported a Home Office official as saying, could be running six
times higher than official figures. The number of routes into Britain was
"unbelievable", with lorry drivers paid up to pounds 3,000 to bring people in.
Trafficking was structured and sophisticated. The next day, a senior registrar
declared that up to a fifth of wedding ceremonies in London could be bogus,
arranged by foreigners desperate to stay in Britain.

These are not allegations that can be lightly thrown aside as "got up" by a
xenophobic press. I suspect they are nearer the truth than ministers would have
us believe. I wish this Government realised the harm it does to itself, and the
support it indirectly stirs up for the BNP, by being so misleadingly reassuring
about what clearly amounts to quite a serious invasion.  .* CROSSING Ken
Livingstone's new Trafalgar Square in a taxi, I noticed that the fare was pounds
2 on entering it, and pounds 3.50 when we left it. Let us suppose that 1,000
taxis cross Trafalgar Square in a day (and it may well be many more) - that is
pounds 1,500 on the clock and well over pounds 500,000 a year.

It is good to see so many foreign visitors taking their ease in the region of
the National Gallery; but do not forget, next time you take a cab through this
new

London pleasure ground, how much you are subscribing towards it.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              344 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

UKIP gives the big three something to think about

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 19

LENGTH: 831 words

Be careful what you wish for. British Euro-enthusiasts have long lamented our
insularity when it comes to European elections: our tendency to see the poll
simply as a referendum on national issues. But on Thursday, for the first time,
a significant number of our countrymen voted on the basis of what they thought
about the EU. The result could hardly have been worse for Europhiles. The
Conservatives, UKIP and the Greens were all, in varying degrees, demanding the
repatriation of power from Brussels. Labour and the Lib-Dems, by contrast,
supported closer integration generally and the proposed constitution
specifically. This is the first British election, national or European, in which
the combined Eurosceptic vote has outweighed that of the pro-Brussels parties.

The three traditional parties need to think hard about what has just happened.
Politicians never find reflection easy: it is human nature to try to make new
developments fit our existing prejudices. But it will not do to dismiss
yesterday's result as a one-off venting of saloon bar patriotism. The UK
Independence Party may be a single-issue protest movement; but such
idiosyncratic movements can redefine the political landscape. One of the most
extraordinary features of Thursday's vote was that UKIP polled 15 per cent of
the vote where it fielded candidates in local elections. UKIP began the campaign
largely unknown to the general public; but we have all heard of it now. The BBC
has even introduced a separate purple icon to show UKIP's vote rather than
simply lumping the party with the "others". Meanwhile, it has begun to assemble
a full portfolio of domestic policies, some of which - on local government
finance, for example - are rather attractive. UKIP's appeal, in short, has as
much to do with a rejection of our political establishment and the bossy,
spin-ridden politics of the past decade, as with a dislike of Brussels. Next
month will see two, or possibly three by-elections, and if the old parties react
complacently, we could be in for a Pim Fortuyn moment which might even influence
the result of the next general election.

The Labour Party faces the most immediate dilemma. On Friday, the Prime Minister
is going abroad again, this time to Brussels, where he must decide whether to
accept the EU constitution. It would be very convenient for him if another state
collapsed the summit: he would then have wrong-footed the Tories brilliantly by
promising a referendum, but would be spared the danger of actually having to
hold one. Yet this scenario seems unlikely. Although there are still some
wranglings about the voting system, taxation, and Judaeo-Christian values, other
countries have broadly signed up to the text. If Mr Blair wants to block it, he
will probably have to wield the veto himself. No doubt he is reluctant to do so:
backing out at this stage would open him to charges of cowardice and hypocrisy,
and would, as he sees it, isolate Britain in Europe. None the less, yesterday's
result shows he has clearly lost entirely his mandate to sign the constitution.
For the first time, Mr Blair is - to use his own words - "an electoral
liability". He is scheduled to spend much of the next two weeks out of the
country and, as Lady Thatcher could tell him, that is when enemies in his own
party will plot. Mr Blair is now entering the most dangerous phase of his
premiership. Gordon Brown has been careful to position himself as more
Eurosceptic than Mr Blair and will calculate he must launch his coup soon, or
see his ambition thwarted - again.

The Lib-Dems, being unashamed federalists, may on the surface seem to be the
party least affected by UKIP's rise. But polls show that many of their voters,
as opposed to their MPs and activists, are Eurosceptics. Any triumphs they had
in the European election were thanks to their anti-Iraq war stance, and not due
to their pro-EU posturing.

The Conservatives. Michael Howard fought what was meant to be a carefully
calibrated campaign, designed to keep his pro-EU faction happy. He placed his
alliance with the federalist European People's Party at the heart of his
manifesto, and spoke of representing a "middle way" on Europe. The strategy
failed even in its own terms - the only Tory MPs to attack Mr Howard's tactics
during the campaign were Ken Clarke's henchmen, Ian Taylor and David Curry.
Rightly, Mr Howard wants to appeal to the centre ground of British politics; but
he needs to realise how far that has moved since 2001. Rhetoric that was
considered "Eurosceptic" in the early 1990s now seems commonplace. Mr Howard's
campaign placed him somewhat to the Left of his MPs, his party members and, most
important, the electorate. He is an extremely able man, with no trace of
pomposity or arrogance, and we hope that he will have the wisdom and the courage
to toughen his stance, not just on Europe, but on other issues too. There is no
shame in a politician reflecting public opinion; and time is running out.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              345 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 14, 2004

ANTI BRUSSELS PARTY DOUBLES ITS VOTE IN EUROPEAN POLLS TRIUMPH; KILROY IS HERE

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 168 words


BRITAIN'S main political parties were last night caught in a nerve-racking
waiting game as exit polls pointed to a great result for the UK Independence
Party in the Euro-elections.

Two surveys predicted that the anti-Brussels party had picked up one in five
votes in last Thursday's poll. Robert Kilroy-Silk, who was set to secure a seat
as a Ukip MEP, said the result would make it impossible for Tony Blair to agree
the new EU Constitution without showing contempt for the electorate, adding:
"Our campaign is just beginning."

Early results last night showed a huge swing away from the main parties as Ukip
doubled its support.

After gaining spectacular momentum in the past few weeks, Ukip - which wants
Britain out of the EU - was tipped by a YouGov poll for Sky News and by official
EU polling to have won 20 per cent of the UK vote.

The results were a further blow to Mr Blair in the wake of Labour's dismal local
election showing, widely blamed on the decision to go to war in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              346 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 14, 2004

ANTI BRUSSELS PARTY HEADING TO EUROPEAN POLLS TRIUMPH; KILROY IS HERE

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 137 words


BRITISH politics was shaken last night as former "fringe" group the UK
Independence Party scored a historic success in the Euroelections.

After gaining spectacular momentum in the past few weeks, the anti-Brussels
party was tipped to have taken one in five of the votes cast on Thursday.

Leading Ukip campaigner Robert Kilroy-Silk said the result would make it
impossible for Tony Blair to agree the new EU Constitution without showing
contempt for the electorate, adding: "Our campaign is just beginning."

Both Labour and the Conservatives were badly hit by Ukip's success while the
Liberal Democrats faced relegation to a humiliating fourth place.

The results were a further blow to Mr Blair in the wake of Labour's dismal local
election showing, widely blamed on the decision to go to war in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              347 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 14, 2004

SUCCESS MARKS START OF BATTLE SAYS KILROY-SILK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 383 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk last night vowed that success for the UK Independence Party
in the Euroelections would mark the start, not the end, of its campaign, writes
Alison Little.

Speaking ahead of the results, he declared: "If the vote bears out the opinion
polls then this marks a momentous sea change in British politics.

"For the first time for decades a party has talked about Europe and not told
lies. The other parties have, " he told the Daily Express.

"Ukip has been absolutely honest and straightforward, advocating the case for
withdrawal from the EU, and that case has got across."

Sunday Express columnist Mr Kilroy-Silk, who stood in the East Midlands for a
European Parliament seat, said voters could now see that it was "perfectly
sensible, reasonable and possible" for Britain to leave the EU while maintaining
good relations and trade with the rest of Europe.

"People have been put off in the past because of the lies they have been
subjected to by the old parties and the scaremongering which we have certainly
seen in this campaign, " he said.

"We have exposed those lies."

He dismissed claims that backing Ukip was just a protest vote.

He insisted: "People are voting for us out of commitment and passion.

They feel they have not been represented in the past."

In the short term, Mr Kilroy-Silk said it was now "impossible" for Tony Blair to
sign up this week to an EU constitution. That would show total contempt for the
British people. He would be very stupid if he didn't see this as a very serious
shot across the bows. He will have to stop now or face humiliating defeat in any
referendum to ratify the constitution."

In the longer term, he fears Europe could one day "implode" in social unrest as
angry citizens realised their governments were blocked by EU rules from tackling
their own economic problems.

"I want it dismantled in a civilised, amicable way, " he said.

He promised Ukip would be a "strong voice" for the British people, exposing
Brussels' "corruption and bureaucracy and the way it is taking away our
independence and our sovereignty", and working to "convince the majority of the
British people that what they want is possible".

"This isn't the end of the campaign.

It's just the beginning, " he added.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              348 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 14, 2004

STUNNING BLOW FOR LABOUR AS UKIP HEADS FOR MAJOR VICTORY; A BIG 'NO' TO EUROPE
AND A BIG 'NO' TO TONY BLAIR

BYLINE: ALISON LITTLE CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 878 words


TONY BLAIR'S vision for Europe was dealt a stunning blow last night as the
anti-Brussels United Kingdom Independence Party headed for spectacular success
in the European elections.

Although Britain voted on Thursday, the results emerged only last night after
polling closed across Europe's 25 nations.

The Ukip, which advocates withdrawal from the EU, was set for promotion from a
"fringe" party with no MPs at Westminster to a serious force. Last night, exit
polls indicated the Ukip had secured 20 per cent of the vote, up from seven per
cent at the last Euro-elections in 1999.

Ukip was just behind the Tories and Labour - on 22 per cent each - while the
Liberal Democrats were pushed into humiliating fourth place.

The findings will boost Ukip's band of Members of the European Parliament from
three to 18 and change the British political landscape for ever.

Overall, the exit poll showed the two main parties collecting well under half
the popular vote.

Labour were heading for 22 MEPs, down from their current 29, and the
Conservatives 21: a loss of 15.

Adjusted to reflect the UK's allocation of seats in the parliament being reduced
by nine after EU enlargement, it would be the equivalent to Labour losing three
seats and the Conservatives 14.

The poll showed a six point fall in support for Labour since 1999, with the
Tories down 14 per cent.

Charles Kennedy's strongly proEuropean Lib Dems were also set to fare badly,
taking 14 per cent of the vote, just one point up on 1999 and four points behind
the Ukip.

Although the biggest losers in voting terms would be the Tories, the Ukip
claimed its own success gave Tony Blair - already reeling from Labour's bad
showing in the local elections - a big headache in Europe.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott was said to be concerned by Labour's poor
performance.

Overall, the YouGov exit poll for Sky News suggested more than 40 per cent of
voters would have backed the two main parties which oppose the EU constitution:
Ukip and the Conservatives.

Mr Blair this week goes to Brussels for a summit at which Europe's leaders hope
to hammer out agreement on a new European constitution but the Ukip's star
candidate, Sunday Express columnist and former TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk
said a big success for his party would make it impossible for Mr Blair to sign
up.

Members of the Ukip are thought likely to make Mr Kilroy-Silk party leader,
possibly today.

He said: "The Prime Minister has had seven years to persuade the British people
they need to be somewhere called the heart of Europe. If we get a significant
vote, clearly the British people don't want to be there with him. He cannot sign
up to the new constitution if there is a significant number of people voting for
the Ukip."

The Ukip is backed by a number of several high-profile supporters, including
actress Joan Collins.

Others include disgraced Tory MP Jonathan Aitken, ex-cricketer Geoff Boycott,
astronomer Sir Patrick Moore and actor Edward Fox.

Yesterday, there were signs of Labour stepping up its sceptical rhetoric on
Europe and playing down chances that there will be a constitution to sign by the
end of the week.

Whitehall insiders suggested that, while the latest draft of the constitution
showed Britain had progressed in securing its "red line" issues, agreement could
yet be scuppered by continuing disputes over how much weight each nation's votes
should carry.

The Ukip said its success also suggested the Tories would be wise to adopt a
tougher stance on Europe.

The exit poll findings took the gloss off the Tories' good showing in the
council elections. The YouGov survey also found that 26 per cent of those who
said they would vote Conservative in a general election had voted Ukip on
Thursday.

Strongly euro-sceptic former Tory Party chairman Lord Tebbit yesterday said he
understood why people voted for the Ukip but he warned that, by taking votes
from the Conservatives, they were playing into Labour's hands.

He said on the BBC's Frost on Sunday: "I think voting Ukip for a lot of
Conservative voters is a way of firing a shot across the bows of the
Conservative Party. The trouble is they could fire it a bit close to the
waterline.

"The Ukip is in many ways an emotional spasm, much as I understand the views of
the people. It is also a damn nuisance. What they are doing is to ensure Blair
will be representing us, if they have their way, in the Council of Ministers and
not Howard. They should ask themselves which they want."

In contrast to the main Westminster parties, the "fringe" parties with no MPs
generally looked set to do well, doubling their share of the vote since 1999
from 20 per cent to 42 per cent, according to the YouGov survey.

It gave the Greens eight per cent of the popular vote - up two points from 1999
- while the British National Party were up three points on four per cent.

The survey found a one-third of those questioned said they would vote to leave
the EU in a referendum. Nearly 350million people were eligible to vote across
Europe.

Exit polls elsewhere suggested a strong anti-government vote, with particularly
poor results for Germany's Gerhard Schroeder and France's Jacques Chirac.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              349 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 14, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; ELECTORS HAMMER HOME EURO MESSAGE TO BLAIR AND HOWARD

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 212 words


CAN THE news get any worse for the Prime Minister? After a battering by the
Conservatives in last week's local elections, he has now had a further drubbing
in the European elections from the UK Independence Party.

It is apparent that the Ukip has been taking votes from Labour. There is no use
in trying to blame Iraq for this latest setback - the voters dislike Mr Blair's
stance on Europe and are making their views known, loud and clear.

But this is not just a "kicking" for the Labour party, as John Prescott would so
ungraciously put it. Here is a warning to the Conservatives, too. Mindful of his
party's past schisms over Europe and cautious about burdening himself with the
Little Englander image that dogged William Hague, Michael Howard has so far
proceeded in second gear on this issue. It is time to take a bolder stand.

The Conservatives have much to console themselves with after the events of the
past week, for substantial chunks of Britain now see them as a real alternative
to the present government.

But they must take heed of what the voters are saying about Europe. The people
of this country do not wish to be subsumed into a federal European state and the
Tories must be prepared to say that they will not allow that to happen.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              350 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 14, 2004

LEADER THE EU HAS TO RECONNECT WITH ITS CITIZENS OR FACE A MAJOR CRISIS; WHY
EUROPE MUST SELL ITSELF TO US ALL AGAIN

BYLINE: JOHN KAMPFNER

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 841 words


OVER THE past four days the largest international electorate in the world has
been asked to determine the largest international parliament in the world that
represents the largest trading bloc in the world. Citizens of 10 countries have
been enjoying this privilege for the very first time.

But enjoyment and privilege are not the first words that spring to mind when
contemplating the European elections. Why is it that the most common reaction
across the continent, and not just in the UK, to the European Union is apathy
and hostility? We used to think that we Brits were the market leaders in
scepticism. Others are catching up fast.

In recent weeks, as the elections to the European Parliament loomed, the great
and the good of the EU were bracing themselves for a record low turnout and for
strong performances in many countries by Right-wing groups critical of the whole
venture.

For the first time, European politicians are genuinely worried about the future
of an organisation designed 50 years ago to bring the continent together after
the devastation of the Second World War. They are asking: why, for so many, has
the dream turned sour?

The appeal of the Ukip is being replicated elsewhere. The main EU-wide pollsters
were predicting at least 50 seats in the 732seat parliament for nationalist or
sceptic parties.

Most striking is Poland, which, like other former satellites of the USSR, only
formally joined the EU on May 1. There, a group led by former pig farmer Andrzej
Lepper, has been picking up large numbers of voters. Even Estonia - once a
Soviet republic - remains unconvinced. The latest poll there puts the number of
Estonians who believe the EU is "a good thing" at just 38 per cent - lower than
in any other member state.

At the other end of the spectrum, Belgium was one of the EU's founding fathers.
Its capital is Europe's capital. It has benefited hugely from the association,
and yet in at least part of the country a far-Right, anti-foreigner group called
the Vlaams Blok is gaining support.

In the Netherlands, a gentler version of Euroscepticism is likely to dominate,
while a grouping formed by a one-time whistleblower, Paul van Buitenen, whose
revelations forced the resignation of the European Commission five years ago, is
likely to gain seats there for the first time.

France has long had JeanMarie Le Pen's National Front, which combines xenophobia
with Euro-hostility. Austria's Freedom Party, which once had a share of
government, was expected to perform strongly again.

Then look at the projected turnouts. Apathy was predicted to be highest in the
new member states, despite the novelty of the elections, particularly in such
places as Slovakia and the Czech Republic that everybody believed stood only to
benefit from joining the club. The Czech president hardly gave it a ringing
endorsement when he described EU membership as a "marriage of convenience" - in
other words, if they had stayed out they would have suffered economically.

APART from the UK, the most consistently cautious country has been Denmark. Its
voters famously rejected the Maastricht Treaty in 1992 and it was approved
second time round only after its government insisted on "opt-outs" from monetary
union and other deals.

The Danes then went on to reject the euro in a referendum in September 2000.

The Danish experience provided the first wake-up call. But even then European
politicians sought to brush it off. It was the Irish vote against the Nice
Treaty in June 2001 that truly shocked them. Drive down any road in Ireland and
you will see that it had been financed from Brussels. In a decade or so Ireland
underwent an economic and cultural revolution, and even then the voters decided
to give Europe a kicking. True, it was based on many issues and true it was
eventually overturned, but what did the result there say about the prospects for
any government that asks its voters to endorse the European project?

Tony Blair's sudden U-turn in allowing a referendum on a European constitution
has sent other leaders into frenzy. What, they say, would happen if not just the
Brits rejected the idea? The French, who for all the grand statements of their
leaders, nearly rejected Maastricht, might give the constitution the thumbsdown;
the Dutch, too. Then Europe would truly be in a crisis.

Europe's many politicians and officials in the Parliament, the Commission and
the Council of Ministers have never felt so out of touch. Their task is somehow
to reconnect the whole project to the people.

They need to explain, in far more obvious ways, how Europe has improved living
standards and the quality of life, everything from better food standards to
cleaner beaches, to the freedom of travel and work that we now all seem to take
for granted.

Because if they fail to do this, then what might have otherwise seemed like a
hiccup, like a one-off protest, will turn into something far more dangerous for
us all.

John Kampfner is political editor of The New Statesman

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              351 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Why be so goddamn glum?: No sensible lesson can be drawn
from this giant electoral muddle

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 965 words


Over there, they bury one great communicator and talk reverently of his
unquenchable optimism. Over here, we bury (or bruise with some brutal kicking)
our own wonderfully fluent communicator, glowering balefully at his targets and
touted achievements. Optimism? Forget it. Labour, like the Tories, takes a
Euro-pounding. Only the bleakest, sourest pessimism will do.

And yet, looking at last night's extreme convulsions, setting them alongside
some memorably awful local election results, you have to wonder what the Gipper
would make of it all. A shrug, a grin, a scratch of the luxuriantly coiffed
head. He liked to keep things simple. He couldn't stand too many darned nuances.
Gee whiz, what on earth's gone wrong? Now there's a poser to get Nancy calling
for her necromancer.

Something's curdled, something's crocked. But set out to learn the supposed
lessons of this mortification, and it's a thin list of tired old mutually
contradictory numbers. Which particular lessons were you thinking of, sir?

Is it that great and abiding lesson - the lesson as preached by Peter Hain and
Robin Cook and Clare Short - which renounces the Iraq invasion with unforgiving
passion and blames Blair for staying too close to George Bush? Or the lesson as
preached by Ukip and the Tories, which effectively says that we don't want a
European foreign policy, can't stomach foreigners' cowardly neutralism on terror
and must therefore (in logic) be free and independent enough to choose to cuddle
closer to him? You can have one lesson, but you can't have both.

What was the supposed doorstep dirge of Bassetlaw and Newcastle-upon-Tyne? Iraq,
Iraq, Iraq. Yet who suffered Europe's most swingeing local defeat of 2004, bar
none? Yes, Jacques Chirac and Jean-Pierre Raffarin, trounced in 19 of the 22
regions of France, humiliated, and battered again last night. Wipe-out doesn't
have to wear a hair shirt or a burka. Wipe-out is a plague on every house along
the street.

And so it goes. Do you like the lesson that wants something done about
congestion, or the lesson that punishes Mayor Ken for doing something about it?
The lesson that heaves with fury over petrol prices, or the lesson that gives
the Greens a big leg up? The Respect lesson exalting tolerance in a complex,
multi-ethnic society, or the BNP lesson that chucks a brick through the nearest
Pakistani window? The lesson that hands the Lib Dems big gains in the north, or
the lesson that takes away Cheltenham and Eastbourne again? The lesson that
punishes leaders for spending too much time abroad, or the lesson that kicks
Jack McConnell for putting Scottish golf before Normandy duty?

Maybe most of all, on last night's whimsical form, do you revere the lesson that
shuffles Michael Howard to the top of the pack on Thursday, a king of hearts
allegedly in Downing Street waiting, then pushes him back to play knave of
spades on Sunday because Robert Kilroy-Silk, Joan Collins, Simon Heffer,
Jonathan Aitken et al must have their fleeting moment of glory?

The only simple lesson, the lesson Ronnie might absorb and burnish, is that
there is no lesson. Maybe the voter is always right, but the voters we have -
right across Europe - have lost rectitude's plot.

In Poland, they vote to join up for the EU one month, then vote in ridiculous
numbers - over 30% - to pull out the next. Who doesn't want the EU we have?
Jean-Marie Le Pen and the Spanish Communist party, Slovakian nationalists and
Maltese socialists. There is no rhyme or reason here, and it is a growing
disservice to common sense to believe that any such rationality exists. Our
incoherence is endemic now. It overturns prophesy and hammers sitting
governments everywhere. It drives Tony Blair from pillar to post. It is the
European norm, political global warming. Yes, but is it final?

At which point, perhaps, the Gipper would smile one of his winsome smiles and
shrug again. Ah, optimism! What are you guys going on about?

It's not the economy, stupid. There the charmed existence - low inflation, even
lower unemployment - continues. Any prime minister (and to be honest, any
president) through the last 50 years would kill for a record like that. Nor, in
truth, is it public services either. The cash flowing copiously into health and
education may be taking time to work its way through, but waiting lists, like
exam results, are improving pretty consistently now. You don't want tax cuts
when you talk to the pollsters. You want an infrastructure that fits your life
and a tolerable context for everyday living - and you're getting that.

The government you have is as competent at delivering tangible benefits as any
in recent memory. Remember John Major and weep. The Europe you have is expanding
with a sweep of confidence that puts ancient conflicts and hatreds to rest.
Peace in our time at last, a future that works and no nuclear shadow. Even
turnout, after all the British wittering, is up. So why be so goddamn glum?

And the plain truth is that there is no reason for flailing gloom. There is,
indeed, every good reason for optimism. What was D-day remembered in those
veterans' faces but a fight against tyranny, an affirmation of freedom? What was
Reagan's burial service but an affirmation (however frail) that politicians can
deliver the happiness of good memories?

Oh, come on you guys. The sun shines bright over our Europe. France can smile in
Portuguese extra time. Toiling pundits should have better things to do today
than try to make smooth sense of the inchoately intractable, to rationalise the
merely flippant. Ronnie would have got on his horse and ridden away - but we
have Wimbledon coming, and John McEnroe's ancestral cry resounds. "You cannot be
serious . . ."

p.preston@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              352 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

2 am News: Ukip soars in voter backlash: Electorate turns against Brussels
across continent

BYLINE: Michael White and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 964 words


The UK Independence party last night spearheaded a determined assault on the
British political establishment in the European elections when they helped force
the Labour and Conservative share of the vote down to barely half of the total,
and narrowly pushed the Liberal Democrats into fourth place.

Across the country results gave consistent encouragement to Ukip, whose election
star was Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former Labour MP and TV personality. He won the
first of two Ukip seats in the East Midlands.

As Ukip headed for a dozen seats - compared with the three it won in 1999 -
Labour appeared to be right in predicting the Tories had suffered most of the
defections. The British National party also appeared to have lost out to Ukip in
the rightwing contest.

A rising tide of Euroscepticism with profoundly significant implications was
evident in voting across Europe yesterday. But Ukip fell short of the
spectacular breakthrough in British politics which it - and several polls - had
predicted in its attempt to become a mass movement which aims to enfranchise
voters ignored by the big parties.

However, its surge has caught a mood of voter disaffection which also boosted
the anti-war Liberal Democrats and the leftwing Respect party. But George
Galloway, the ex-Labour MP, did not win a seat and cabinet ministers, loyally
backing the beleaguered Tony Blair, insisted they remain on course to win a
third term - despite Europe, the Iraq factor and voter scepticism about public
service reform.

The likely final result may give the Tories 27 of the 78 seats, Labour 19, Lib
Dems and Ukip a dozen, the Greens two.

For Downing Street there was some comfort in the news from across Europe that
governing parties were being punished by alienated voters, who were also backing
Eurosceptic parties in unprecedented numbers. At 38% the UK turnout, 14% up, was
a record high, bucking the wider EU trend.

Labour came second last night, compared with third in Thursday's council
elections. With 10 out of 11 regions declared Ukip had edged into third place.

Ukip gained its first seat in London, and a second seat in the South West as it
clearly hurt the Tories harder than Labour, which held its two Scottish and two
Welsh seats against some odds. The Liberal Democrats won a seat in the
north-east. Martin Bell, the ex-BBC Independent, retired after failing in the
eastern region.

Early today the BBC computer suggested that the Tories will emerge on around 28%
(down 8%), Labour will be on 21% (7% below its poor 1999 result), and Ukip on
18%, ahead of the Lib Dems on 15%. The Greens' Caroline Lucas hung on to her
seat in the South East.

The spectacle of Mr Kilroy-Silk being outdone in Eurosceptic rhetoric by the
Tories' Roger Helmer at the count in Northampton illustrated the big problem
ahead for Tony Blair and Michael Howard. "The forces of national liberation are
on the march and will not take No for an answer," Mr Helmer said. Mr Kilroy-Silk
denounced the "corrupt, dictatorial regime in Brussels".

The prime minister's aides dismissed claims by Mr Kilroy-Silk and his allies
that Mr Blair will now not dare to sign a final version of the EU constitution
at this week's Brussels summit.

"If he does he'll lose the referendum very heavily," said Ukip MEP Nigel Farage,
who complained that the media had consistently neglected Ukip over Europe. "The
entire political class is heading in one direction and ordinary Britons are
heading in the opposite direction," he said.

Senior Labour strategists believe that Ukip will have the opposite effect by
frightening voters with its talk of quitting the EU and polarising debate. "If
Ukip does well it will make the referendum more, not less winnable," predicted a
key Blair ally.

The problem is as acute for the Tories. If Mr Howard tilts towards a harder
anti-EU line, he may split his party, as the veteran pro-European Kenneth Clarke
made clear yesterday. If he fails to respond to the Ukip challenge, more Tory
supporters may defect unless they accept Lord Tebbit's warning yesterday:
another shot across the Tory bow at the general election may hole Mr Howard's
boat, he said on BBC1's Breakfast with Frost.

Labour officials were relieved. "The Tories have got a civil war on their
hands," said one survivor of the SDP split that rendered Labour divided and
impotent through much of the 1980s. In 1983 Michael Foot narrowly avoided third
place against the SDP/Liberal Alliance.

But last night's fresh evidence of the break-up of the historic duopoly of the
past 75 years offers no comfort to either main party. No election since the
unique postwar "khaki election" of 1918 has seen the share of the vote enjoyed
by both top parties fall below 25%.

Labour's chairman, Ian McCartney, said: "Before the campaign, the Tories said in
a presentation to their own MEPs they wanted to get 42% in these elections,
'enough to win a general election'. Far from getting 42%, the Tories have failed
dramatically to get anywhere near to the 36% that William Hague got in 1999, two
years before they suffered a landslide defeat."

Conservative co-chairman Dr Liam Fox said: "The Conservatives won these
elections, just as we won the local elections and the Greater London assembly
elections. We got the highest share of the vote and have the most MEPs. Labour's
result is the worst result of a governing party in British electoral history."

Britain's higher turnout was in marked contrast to the rest of Europe, where in
the biggest election in the continent's history the 25-state average was 44.6%,
a record low, and just 28.7% among the 10 new members.

Elections 2004, pages 9-12

Peter Preston, page 17

Roy Hattersley, page 18

Leader comment, page 19


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              353 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

The real loser is our place in Europe

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 897 words


Put out more St George's flags! England may have lost the football last night,
but for Little Englanders it was a night to celebrate.

By fast track or by slow "Britain Out'"did well. In the European elections the
vote to leave the heart of Europe was higher than ever before, even if Ukip
didn't get all it boasted it would.

Choosing either the fast exit with Ukip or the slow road out with the
Conservatives, the sentiment is much the same: recent polls show two-thirds of
Conservative voters want out too.

Together, the anti-European parties polled alarmingly well.

Forget the polite term Eurosceptic, these are all now Euroexits out loud or
sotto voce, however hard Michael Howard tries to resist his wilder tendency and
hold to his promise of a fictional renegotiation that is not on offer.

The Conservatives suffered last night at the hands of an upstart party that
dares say out loud what most Tories think but dare not speak.

Labour took the same punishment meted out right across Europe to ruling parties:
a pain-free howl of protest at power everywhere.

It should come as no surprise as these elections came as Europe suffers the
least inspiring leadership for many years. A new wave of Euroscepticism emerged
in Scandinavia and elsewhere but this was Britain's most virulent anti-European
result.

For Tony Blair personally that is a disaster. No, it does not presage his
imminent downfall nor the loss of the next general election for Labour, but it
signals his his toric failure to earn the epitaph he intended as the man who led
Britain into the heart of Europe. Plans for that monument lie in ruins: under
his watch the country has turned against Europe more fiercely than under either
Margaret Thatcher or John Major: a threatening milestone on the road to
isolation.

It will take a near miracle to win a constitutional referendum now.

That is as much the prime minister's fault as his chancellor's, indulging in the
Murdoch-pleasing politics of "red lines" and "fighting Brussels".

The Britain in Europe campaign which Mr Blair launched has been non-existent, to
the fury of europhile Tories who sacrificed much within their own party to join
it.

Last night Labour ministers were playing the same dangerous anti-Brussels game,
boasting that this result strengthens Blair's arm to be tougher in the final
constitutional negotiations next week.

Whistling in the dark, some claimed winning would be easier now as the people
would come to their senses once confronted with a stark in-or-out choice.

Others secretly pray some other country will wreck it in their referendum. Or
maybe the wretched thing will not be ever agreed.

Ministers went into damage limitation overdrive yesterday, but can Labour take
the strain of this unaccustomed defeat?

"Worst Results Ever" is something Labour's class of '97 have never heard. The
psephological rulebook will have to be re-written, for none of what happened in
the polls last week obeys those runes.

Here is a government riding high on the strongest economy in living memory with
low interest rates, low inflation, high employment, public services improving
and led by a man 63% declare the most competent leader, according to last week's
BBC poll.

Labour has led practically every opinion poll, usually by a good margin.

It is plainer than ever that the Tories are nowhere near victory.

If the council elections were the worst ever result for Labour since the second
world war, then the euro election results are set to be the worst ever by a
sitting government in a national vote since the first world war.

How bad is that? Well, forget the rule book, it's probably not that bad.

This is more febrile and fickle territory, harder to predict, but Labour still
looks safe. How will it respond to these bad results? Those on the left will
urge leftwards, pointing to the haemorrhage to small parties. The Mandelson wing
will urge rightwards, warning that votes are slipping away in the middle
England.

Brownites will call for a new leader, so Nick Brown told me yesterday, "The
government is rallying round largely because they've been told to do so. But
there is now a need for reflection," he said, and everyone knows what he
reflects on.

Was all this Iraq? If so it hardly makes sense.

What an irony for voters to turn against Europe when the best protest would be
to make common cause with the anti-war Europeans. But Iraq was only one side of
the story.

One word holds a clue to the rise of anti-Europe fever: Sangatte. It offered
daily im ages of foreign hordes bent on invading Britain's shores: moustached
men in leather jackets heading this way. A Eurosceptic press claimed the French
did nothing, waving asylum seekers through with un-neighbourly malice.

Anti-European gut instinct bled into asylum as Labour's pollsters had warned for
years. Labour MPs up and down the country found asylum and Europe come together
on doorsteps rich and poor.

Sangatte may be closed, asylum figures plummeting, but the image lingers and
David Blunkett has not been wrong in sounding the alarm.

Across Europe, it is the issue that catches the main parties by the throat.

But the true disaster will not be Labour's.

It will be Britain's future in the EU now at risk of removal to the margins,
left behind again as Europe moves on.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              354 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Political new boys

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 149 words


* Ukip was formed in September 1993 at the London School of Economics by several
members of the Anti-Federalist League. Early campaigning was largely drowned out
by the larger and better-funded Referendum party, led by Sir James Goldsmith

* Celebrity supporters include cricketer Geoffrey Boycott, who was convicted by
a French court of beating his mistress, Jonathan Aitken, the former Tory
minister jailed for perjury and perverting the course of justice, and Joan
Collins, who declared "I am not a political person" while on the campaign trail

* The party has a £2m fighting fund, largely from wealthy donors such as retired
Kent bookie Alan Bown and Yorkshire property millionaire Paul Sykes, a former
Tory Eurosceptic

* During the 2001 general election campaign the largest individual donor was Sir
Jack Hayward, former chairman of Wolves football club, who gave £50,000


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              355 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Galloway's Euro ambitions dashed

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 296 words


George Galloway's attempt to enter the European parliament with his anti-war
party Respect ended in failure last night.

The former Labour MP secured 91,175 votes but was beaten by Labour and the
Conservatives, who each picked up three seats, and the Liberal Democrats and the
Greens, who each secured one, as well as the UK Independence party, who will
send Gerard Batten to Strasbourg.

Mr Galloway needed 115,000 votes to get a seat.

He nevertheless went down fighting, criticising election officials for failing
to educate the public on how to vote and for not producing information in
minority languages.

He also turned on Tony Blair. In his concession speech, Mr Galloway said: "This
should be a warning to Labour that, until they ditch the warmongers who dragged
Britain into the swamp of Iraq, they will never be able to draw a line, because
you can't draw a line in quicksand."

He said that Respect, which gained 4.79% of the vote,was "the coming power in
the land" and predicted that Labour would get a "bloody good hiding" in the
forthcoming byelection in Leicester South.

"Tonight we were runners-up, but in the elections to come we will be the
winners," he claimed.

Mr Galloway's performance was close to that of the Respect list in the London
Assembly elections, where it took 4.57% of the vote.

Its mayoral candidate was supported by 2.57% of the electorate.

Mr Galloway, whose parliamentary seat in Glasgow is to disappear in boundary
changes, said he would fight a seat in east London, where Respect took 19% of
the London Assembly vote.

Though London previously sent 10 representatives to the European parliament,
only nine seats were contested this time.

Both Labour and the Tories had four MEPs elected in 1999.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              356 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Ukip takes Lib Dems' place as third political force

BYLINE: Kevin Maguire

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 477 words


Charles Kennedy predicted gains in a three-way fight at the general election
early today, despite being pushed into fourth place by the United Kingdom
Independence party.

Mr Kennedy saw his pro-European party's share of the vote go up - although it
was leapfrogged by its anti-European rival to be placed behind the Tories and
Labour.

Ukip's showing was galling for a party which presents itself as the third
political force: the national alternative to Labour and the Tories.

But Mr Kennedy said the three traditional protagonists would slug it out for
seats in Westminster as he forecast more Liberal Democrat MPs after next year's
anticipated general election.

He said: "In yet another set of elections the Liberal Democrats' share of the
vote is up, while the other main parties are down to unprecedented levels. It is
now clear, on the evidence of all these elections, that the story of the next
general election is one of three-party politics.

"The Liberal Democrats have emerged stronger, while the other two main parties
have been deeply wounded."

The party's share of the vote was up by some 2% to about 15%. Its seats in the
European parliament went from one to nine after 11 declarations.

The party followed up its capture of Newcastle council last week by winning a
seat from Labour in Tony Blair's backyard of north-east England, in the shape of
Fiona Hall, as the Lib Dem vote rose by 4% to 18%. In London the Lib Dem vote
was up 4% to 15%, with it pushing Ukip into fourth place.

In Wales it finished fifth, 561 votes behind Ukip, also trailing Labour, Plaid
Cymru and the Conservatives.

A 2% jump in the share of the vote in Wales to nearly 10.5% was topped by a
7.39% increase for Ukip to just over 10.5%.

Lord Rennard, the Lib Dem's chief executive and chief election strategist,
boasted that it was the only one of the three main parties to have improved its
share of the vote.

"The Conservative and Labour parties are at their lowest level since either of
them began fighting elections on a national basis," said Lord Rennard.

"The Conservatives cannot claim any sort of recovery if their share in these
elections falls to about two-thirds of the level achieved by William Hague.

"This will leave the Liberal Democrats as the clear opposition to Labour in the
Labour heartlands at the next general election."

Matthew Taylor, the Lib Dem chairman, said the party was in an "arm wrestle"
with the Tories in the south and "doing very well" against Labour in the north.

"In these elections we are the only one of the three main parties making
consistent gains and we are up," he said.

Malcolm Bruce, another frontbencher, said: "The Liberal Democrats are poised to
make advances and be a significant player in the next election. I'm not saying
it's a triumph, but it is solid progress."


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              357 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Parties left in no doubt: Kilroy was here: Lessons of Ukip's
success will be used in general election

BYLINE: Sarah Hall and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 915 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk's reaction to the news that he was being sent to the European
parliament as a Ukip MEP was almost presidential. Clapping his hands slowly and
ceremoniously he struck a studied and dignified pose in contrast to the hoots
and cheers of the Ukip activists around him.

The Tories, with 371,262 votes to Ukip's 366,198, were less sanguine.

Roger Helmer, the re-elected Eurosceptic Tory, made no secret of his fury at the
phenomenal success of what he had earlier dubbed "an opportunistic single-issue
party".

His attack left Mr Kilroy-Silk unfazed, though he offered a smooth put-down.
"Now you know why the British people are fed up with the old parties, sick and
tired of being talked to in that kind of simplistic mantra," he said to cheers.

"It was", he said earlier, "a monumental night."

It was a late one, too. Anxious party workers waited past midnight to find out
whether their hero was to make a dramatic return to the political stage.

But as his band of supporters hailed a Sky exit poll which showed a major
breakthrough for Ukip, Mr Kilroy-Silk headed towards the sign marked toilets,
excusing himself for close to an hour from the fevered atmosphere of a sports
centre in Northampton.

The man who has charmed a quarter of a million guests on his television show and
millions of viewers, appeared ill at ease while waiting in the limbo hours
between the start of the count and its outcome.

After a brief interview with the BBC - after which he refreshed himself with
decidedly un-British Vittel water - he was driven away from the count and back
to his hotel's relative sanctity.

His awkward behaviour will come as a surprise to fans of Britain's most
prominent Eurosceptic, who decided to stand for Ukip just weeks ago.

The arrival of the silver-haired former television star on the Ukip ballot
transformed the fortunes of a party which had been dismissed as a bunch of
cranks, and led to a significant increase in its vote.

The main political parties were left wondering how Ukip, which was more famous
for its internal feuds and xenophobic pledges to end "overcrowding" in Britain,
had marched to centre stage.

"They have done brilliantly, there is no doubting that," one minister said last
night.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's dominance of the campaign gave the party a popular if abrasive
figurehead, and a "brand image".

"I couldn't pronounce my party's name a few weeks ago, and now every single
person in the audience on Question Time was talking about it the other night,"
Mr Kilroy-Silk told the Guardian with typical modesty this week.

His fame and notoriety, after being sacked from his eponymous TV show for
anti-Arab comments made in his Sunday Express column, secured Ukip instant and
massive publicity. No other candidate got anything like his coverage.

His good looks and "man of the people" persona also helped to persuade voters
that this was not a party of "cranks and gadflies", as the Tories had described
their new enemies.

But it was Tony Blair's decision to hold a referendum on the EU constitution,
and then to turn that into an in or out vote, that galvanised Eurosceptical
voters across the political spectrum, though particularly on the right.

"Many of our voters said, 'Thanks for the invitation, prime minister - we want
out and will vote Ukip to achieve that'," a Tory frontbencher said.

The opposition to Europe was not the only issue exploited by Ukip. Deepening
anger over touchstone issues was harnessed.

In a sign of the rows ahead in the party, when his supporters attempt to unseat
the shambolic former Tory whip Roger Knapman as Ukip's leader, Mr Kilroy-Silk
was forced to disown some of the party's official pledges to prove that he was
not racist. "I just want to run my own campaign," he said. While Ukip's website
depicts people from Algeria, Egypt and Turkey pouring into a UK "with standing
room only", he has insisted that "if they fill particular jobs they will be very
welcome". Mr Kilroy-Silk ensured that on his walkabouts he approached lots of
black and minority ethnic voters.

Echoing Margaret Thatcher, the website declares: "We live on a small island. Our
cities are overcrowded, our roads clogged up and our railways are grinding to a
halt . . . In 2002, the government allowed in another 200,000 people. The UK
Independence party will put an end to mass immigration."

Two lessons appear to have emerged for the mainstream parties in their
forthcoming general election campaigns.

First, Ukip honed a clear message and then grabbed the public's attention with a
series of publicity stunts, described by one commentator as a dance of the seven
veils.

Then the publicist Max Clifford offered the party some badly needed advice - to
ram through its message with strong "people stories".

Mr Clifford's hand could be seen in the "drip-drip" defections of four former
Tory MPs and the call by four Conservative peers for Tories to back Ukip. This
may prove a mixed blessing. One of the defectors, the redoubtable hereditary
peer Lord Willoughby, dismissed Tory plans to renegotiate EU treaties as "going
to McDonald's and ordering a lobster thermidor".

"It would be nice to have it, but it's not on the menu," he said, provoking
hearty mockery from the deputy prime minister, John Prescott, in the Commons
last week.

Links

www.elections2004.eu.int European parliament: election results

guardian.co.uk/politics/ elections2004


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              358 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Beyond the numbers: Ukip emerges as the protest vote of choice

BYLINE: Alan Travis

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 443 words


The Conservatives were forced to share some of Labour's electoral pain as the
European election results began to come through last night.

But the early results showed that it was not only to be the anti-EU United
Kingdom Independence Party who were to be the "victors" of the night. The
Liberal Democrats also continued to make advances in London and the north of
England helping them to consolidate their credibility as an opposition party.

It was always going to be difficult for Michael Howard to pull off as good a
result as he managed in Thursday's local elections because the last time the
Euro elections were fought in 1999 William Hague secured an unexpected 36% of
the vote on a record low turnout of 24%.

Last night the initial results suggested that the Tory share of the vote has
fallen seven points since then to around the 29% mark but on a higher turnout.

Labour got "a good kicking" in the Euros as they did in the local elections and
if early predictions that their share of the vote had fallen nine points since
1999 to the 20% mark that would prove their worst performance in any national
election since 1918.

So where did the vote go? Earlier data suggested that one in four Labour and
Tory voters would switch to other parties. Ukip was predicted to be the main
beneficiaries taking up to 22% share of the national vote. The early results
showed them making inroads into the Tory vote and doubling their share of the
vote from 7% to 14%.

In Yorkshire and Humberside the Tory share of the vote fell by 12 points to 25%;
and Labour were down five points to 26%. Ukip were the main beneficiaries up
from 7% to 14% but the Lib Dems were also up and maintained their position in
third place.

In the Labour bastion of the North East their vote dropped by eight points to
34% and the Tories were down by nine points to only 19% share of the vote. In
the region where they gained Newcastle-upon-Tyne council the Lib Dems nearly
pushed the Tories into third place with a four point mini-surge to an 18% share
of the vote. Again Ukip took 12% of the vote.

In the first results to be declared, in London, Labour were the biggest losers
down 10 points compared with the Tories' six-point drop. The gainers were Ukip
up five points to 12% share of the vote, the Lib Dems up four points to 15% and
the Respect coalition that took 5% of the vote. The Greens maintained 8%.

Overall Ukip emerged as the protest party of choice. The 1989 European elections
put the Green party on the map and they have remained a feature of the political
landscape ever since. These elections look certain to do the same for Ukip.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              359 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Howard faces call to shift to the right: Tories Eurosceptics to
demand shift in policy

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 422 words


Michael Howard will tonight face calls to move to the right on Europe when
Eurosceptic Tory MPs issue a powerful plea for the party to respond to the
success of the United Kingdom Independence party.

Hardline Eurosceptics, who have kept a low profile since Mr Howard became leader
last year, are planning to use a special meeting of the parlia mentary party at
Westminster to demand that he shifts his policy to a "fundamental renegotiation"
of Britain's relationship with the EU.

The move, which is being spearheaded by the arch Eurosceptic Bill Cash,
indicates that a truce in the Tory civil war is likely to collapse this week as
the two sides call on Mr Howard to move in opposite directions.

Kenneth Clarke, the fiercely pro-European former chancellor, last night
dismissed Ukip's success and called on Mr Howard not to abandon his "live and
let live" approach to the EU. "A popular rightwing party would have done as well
as Ukip at any time over the past two years with the right leadership," he told
the BBC.

The meeting tonight will be presided over by Liam Fox, the party co-chairman,
who makes no secret of his contempt for the EU.

Dr Fox indicated that the Ukip success had hit home when he said: "There is
strong resentment about the direction we have gone on Europe. People voted for
the Common Market (in the 1975 referendum) and many do not accept what they
got."

But the Tory leadership was adamant last night that Mr Howard would stand by his
approach to Europe which had appeared to unite the party.

Under his "live and let live" philosophy, which was outlined in a speech in
Berlin last February, Mr Howard welcomed continental moves to federalism, as
long as this was not imposed on Britain.

His speech led to the quietest period in the Tory European feud. Even Mr Clarke,
the party's most fervent pro-European, backed the new policy.

"None of the parties have made the case for Europe," Mr Clarke said last night.
"But Michael Howard has been making it. He has done rather well."

From the other wing of the party, Eurosceptics made clear their unease. Lord
Tebbit said he understood why people voted Ukip but warned that by taking votes
from the Conservatives they were simply playing into the hands of Labour.

"I think voting Ukip for a lot of Conservative voters is a way of firing a shot
across the bows of the Conservative party. The trouble is that if they are not
careful they could fire it a bit close to the waterline," he told BBC1's
Breakfast with Frost.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              360 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Loyalist ministers shrug off poll gloom: Labour: Party refuses
to panci as focus turns to EU

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 723 words


Tony Blair will today pick himself up, dust himself down after the worst
electoral weekend of his 10-year Labour leadership, and seek to drive the
political agenda forward towards a third term - despite the anger and
disappointment evident in "Super Thursday's" triple ballot.

One cabinet colleague, Peter Hain, warned Labour supporters in yesterday's
Observer that they just might lose Mr Blair if they give protest votes to Mr
Hain's old party, the Liberal Democrats. "If this behaviour is reflected at the
general election, it isn't teaching us a lesson or giving a message. What it's
doing is bringing Michael Howard in by the back door," he said.

But John Prescott and Gordon Brown led a clutch of senior ministers in singing
from the loyalist's hymn sheet. "The lessons that we learn is we have got to
work even harder. We've got to listen, reflect, examine what has happened," Mr
Brown said on GMTV. It was a mid-term problem which Labour would resolve by
demonstrating it has "the ideas for the future". That is what the weeks ahead
are all about. With Mr Blair and Mr Brown working well again together with Peter
Mandelson at the same table - "a formidable combination," one cabinet minister
said yesterday - Labour's internal recriminations for Thursday's losses were
quite modest yesterday, at least by historic standards.

Mr Blair will end this week as he did the last one, negotiating abroad: then at
the G8 industrial summit in the US, this time trying to cut a satisfactory deal
on the EU's draft constitution at the Brussels summit on Thursday, Friday and
probably Saturday too.

It is fraught with peril. Allies make light of the UK Independence party's
warning throughout the last month that a good result for them last night would
force Mr Blair to veto the treaty. They insist they want a deal and believe that
Ukip's simplistic remedies - "Britain out" - will polarise debate and make it
easier to win the promised referendum.

It is a theory which may soon be tested to destruction. "It's all about momentum
and continuity now," said one who repeated - again - that there will be no
apology for the Iraq war because the prime minister does not believe he has
anything to apologise for.

Before the flight to Brussels Mr Blair will again take the fight to the domestic
enemy. This week will bring close quarter combat of a different kind. At 3.30
this afternoon he will face MPs with a report from the G8's modest achievements
on Sea Island off the coast of Georgia. At six o'clock he will address Labour
backbenchers at their private weekly meeting. At noon tomorrow he will square
off against a third potentially hostile block: political reporters who will
attend his monthly press conference at No 10.

If Mr Blair is seeking comfort from a weekend of election results that will add
to complexity of his multidimensional chess game, it is that no newspaper has
been calling for his resignation in the past 48 hours - though hardened
backbench critics like Clare Short, Peter Kilfoyle and Nick Brown hinted with
varying degrees of bluntness that he might like to take a walk.

More striking is how few less-avowedly hostile Labour MPs joined them. Moreover,
few commentators of any stripe wrote that they think he will lose the coming
general election, even those who now believe that Iraq has become a synonym for
a wider mistrust of Mr Blair that encompasses all-important public service
reform.

What mattered to the party professionals at Labour HQ was that Michael Howard,
Mr Blair's official rival for the premiership, did not achieve the hoped-for
breakthrough at the polls - 40% or more of the vote - and has now got the Ukip
burglar inside the Tory gates stealing his votes and thunder. Labour can live
with Lib Dem advances.

It fell to Lord Falconer, the former Blair flatmate who is now constitutional
affairs secretary, to use a TV interview to restate the Blairite position.

"There is no doubt that we all want Tony and expect Tony to lead the party into
the next election. The prime minister has made it clear that he will stand and
stand on the basis that it will be for a full term. He will stay leader for as
long as it is in the interests of the party and the public. I don't think for
one moment he has become a liability for the party," Lord Falconer said.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              361 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Howard faces end of three-year truce: Tories Leader pulled both
ways by Ukip surge

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 375 words


A three-year-long truce in the Tory civil war is likely to collapse this week as
pro-Europeans and Eurosceptics call on Michael Howard to move in opposite
directions to meet the threat from the United Kingdom Independence party.

Even before the strong performance by the anti-EU party had been confirmed last
night, the two sides started to lay down the battle lines.

The pro-Europeans called on Mr Howard to stand firm and resist the temptation to
move to the right on Europe, as William Hague did so disastrously in the run-up
to the 2001 general election.

Eurosceptics demanded that Mr Howard ditch his carefully measured "live and let
live" approach to the EU and woo Tory voters who seem to have defected to the
Ukip in droves.

Lord Heseltine, the former deputy prime minister, gave a taste of the battle
when he warned Mr Howard to resist the Eurosceptic "streamroller" in the Tory
party. But he told GMTV: "I don't think he's in a winning position on that spe
cific issue. If he doesn't take it on, there will be a lot of criticism; if he
does take it on, again there will be a different lot of criticism."

From the other wing of the party, Mr Howard faced calls to recognise why Ukip
has done so well.

Richard Shepherd, the arch-Eurosceptic Tory MP who caused John Major grief over
the Maastricht treaty, said: "Ukip does reflect what the mainstream parties do
not: real dissatisfaction with the way in which an elite governs this country."

Senior Tory sources were adamant last night that Mr Howard would stand by his
approach to Europe which had appeared to unite the party's feuding factions.

Even Kenneth Clarke, the party's most fervent pro-European, backed the new
policy under which the Tory leader welcomed continental moves to federalism as
long as this was not imposed on Britain.

Mr Howard's approach, which was outlined in a speech in Berlin last February,
led to the quietest period in the Tory European feud. This was welcomed by most
sides who agree that the truce was formally enacted when the fiercely
Eurosceptic Iain Duncan Smith, who made his name as a Maastricht rebel in the
1990s, decided to downgrade Europe after Mr Hague's disastrous "keep the pound"
election campaign in 2001.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              362 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Britain: How we voted

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1735 words


East Midlands

Derby; Derbyshire; Leicester; Leicestershire; Lincolnshire; Northamptonshire;
Nottingham; Nottinghamshire; Rutland

Electorate 3,241,566 Turnout 43.40%

Elected Roger Helmer (C) Chris Heaton-Harris (C) Phillip Whitehead (Lab) Bill
Newton Dunn (LD) Robert Kilroy-Silk (UKIP) Derek Clark (UKIP)

C 371,362 (26.40%)

UKIP 366,498 (26.05%)

Lab 294,918 (20.97%)

LD 181,964 (12.94%)

BNP 91,860 (6.53%)

Green 76,633 (5.45%)

Respect 20,009 (1.42%)

Ind R 2,615 (0.19%)

Ind H 847 (0.06%)

C maj 4,864 (0.35%)

15.78% swing C to UKIP

1999 C 78,906 (10.90%) C 285,662 (39.47 %), Lab 206,756 (28.57 %), LD 92,398
(12.77 %), UKIP 54,800 (7.57 %), Green 38,954 (5.38 %), Alt Lab 17,409 (2.41 %),
Pro Euro C 11,359 (1.57 %), BNP 9,342 (1.29 %), Soc Lab 5,528 (0.76 %), NLP
1,525 (0.21 %)

Eastern

Bedfordshire; Cambridgeshire; Essex; Hertfordshire; Luton; Norfolk;
Peterborough; Southend-on-Sea; Suffolk; Thurrock

Electorate 4,137,374 Turnout 36.50%

Elected Geoffrey Van Orden (C) Robert Sturdy (C) Christopher Beazley (C) Richard
Howitt (Lab) Andrew Duff (LD) Jeffrey Titford (UKIP) Tom Wise (UKIP)

C 465,526 (30.82%)

UKIP 296,160 (19.61%)

Lab 244,929 (16.22%)

LD 211,378 (14.00%)

Ind 93,028 (6.16%)

Green 84,068 (5.57%)

BNP 65,557 (4.34%)

EDP 26,807 (1.78%)

Respect 13,904 (0.92%)

Ind Naisbitt 5,137 (0.34%)

Prolife 3,730 (0.25%)

C maj 169,366 (11.21%)

11.32% swing C to UKIP

1999 C 174,959 (17.59%) C 425,091 (42.75 %), Lab 250,132 (25.15 %), LD 118,822
(11.95 %), UKIP 88,452 (8.89 %), Green 61,334 (6.17 %), Lib 16,861 (1.70 %), Pro
Euro C 16,340 (1.64 %), BNP 9,356 (0.94 %), Soc Lab 6,143 (0.62 %), NLP 1,907
(0.19 %)

London

Electorate 5,054,957 Turnout 37.30%

Elected Miss Theresa Villiers (C) John Bowis (C) Charles Tannock (C) Claude
Moraes (Lab) Ms Mary Honeyball (Lab) Robert Evans (Lab) Ms Sarah Ludford (LD) Ms
Jean Lambert (Green) Gerard Batten (UKIP)

C 504,941 (26.78%)

Lab 466,584 (24.75%)

LD 288,790 (15.32%)

UKIP 232,633 (12.34%)

Green 158,986 (8.43%)

Respect 91,175 (4.84%)

BNP 76,152 (4.04%)

CPA 45,038 (2.39%)

EDP 15,945 (0.85%)

PPBG 5,205 (0.28%)

C maj 38,357 (2.03%)

2.18% swing Lab to C

1999 Lab 26,477 (2.32%) Lab 399,466 (35.00 %), C 372,989 (32.68 %), LD 133,058
(11.66 %), Green 87,545 (7.67 %), UKIP 61,741 (5.41 %), Soc Lab 19,632 (1.72 %),
BNP 17,960 (1.57 %), Lib 16,951 (1.49 %), Pro Euro C 16,383 (1.44 %), AHRPE
4,851 (0.43 %), Anti VAT 2,596 (0.23 %), Humanist 2,586 (0.23 %), Hemp 2,358
(0.21 %), NLP 2,263 (0.20 %), WW 846 (0.07 %)

North East

County Durham; Darlington; Hartlepool; Middlesbrough; Northumberland; Redcar &
Cleveland; Stockton-on-Tees; Tyne & Wear

Electorate 1,911,562 Turnout 40.83%

Elected Martin Callanan (C) Stephen Hughes (Lab) Fiona Hall (LD)

Lab 266,057 (34.09%)

C 144,969 (18.57%)

LD 138,791 (17.78%)

UKIP 94,887 (12.16%)

BNP 50,249 (6.44%)

Ind 39,658 (5.08%)

Green 37,247 (4.77%)

Respect 8,633 (1.11%)

Lab maj 121,088 (15.51%)

0.37% swing C to Lab

1999 Lab 57,000 (14.78%) Lab 162,573 (42.15 %), C 105,573 (27.37 %), LD 52,070
(13.50 %), UKIP 34,063 (8.83 %), Green 18,184 (4.71 %), Soc Lab 4,511 (1.17 %),
BNP 3,505 (0.91 %), Pro Euro C 2,926 (0.76 %), SPGB 1,510 (0.39 %), NLP 826
(0.21 %)

North West

Blackburn-with-Darwen; Blackpool; Cheshire; Cumbria; Greater Manchester; Halton;
Lancashire; Merseyside; Warrington

Electorate 5,151,964 Turnout 40.86%

Elected Den Dover (C) David Sumberg (C) Sir Robert Atkins (C) Gary Titley (Lab)
Ms Arlene McCarthy (Lab) Terry Wynn (Lab) Chris Davies (LD) Saj Karim (LD) John
Whittaker (UKIP)

Lab 576,388 (27.38%)

C 509,446 (24.20%)

LD 335,063 (15.92%)

UKIP 247,158 (11.74%)

BNP 134,958 (6.41%)

Green 117,393 (5.58%)

Lib 96,325 (4.58%)

EDP 34,110 (1.62%)

Respect 24,636 (1.17%)

Countryside 11,283 (0.54%)

Prolife 10,084 (0.48%)

Ind 8,318 (0.40%)

Lab maj 66,942 (3.18%)

2.06% swing C to Lab

1999 C 9,516 (0.94%) C 360,027 (35.39 %), Lab 350,511 (34.46 %), LD 119,376
(11.74 %), UKIP 66,779 (6.57 %), Green 56,828 (5.59 %), Lib 22,640 (2.23 %), BNP
13,587 (1.34 %), Soc Lab 11,338 (1.11 %), Pro Euro C 9,816 (0.97 %), ACPFCA
2,251 (0.22 %), NLP 2,114 (0.21 %), Ind Hum 1,049 (0.10 %), WW 878 (0.09 %)

South East

Bracknell Forest; Brighton & Hove; Buckinghamshire; East Sussex; Hampshire; Isle
of Wight; Kent; Medway; Milton Keynes; Oxfordshire; Portsmouth; Reading; Slough;
Southampton; Surrey; West Berkshire; West Sussex; Windsor & Maidenhead;
Wokingham

Electorate 6,048,349 Turnout 36.50%

Elected Daniel Hannan (C) Nirj Deva (C) James Elles (C) Richard Ashworth (C)
Peter Skinner (Lab) Chris Huhne (LD) Ms Emma Nicholson (LD) Ms Caroline Lucas
(Green) Nigel Farage (UKIP) Ashley Mote (UKIP)

C 776,370 (35.17%)

UKIP 431,111 (19.53%)

LD 338,342 (15.33%)

Lab 301,398 (13.65%)

Green 173,351 (7.85%)

BNP 64,877 (2.94%)

Senior 42,861 (1.94%)

EDP 29,126 (1.32%)

Respect 13,426 (0.61%)

Peace 12,572 (0.57%)

CPA 11,733 (0.53%)

Prolife 6,579 (0.30%)

Ind 5,671 (0.26%)

C maj 345,259 (15.64%)

9.54% swing C to UKIP

1999 C 369,785 (24.82%) C 661,931 (44.42 %), Lab 292,146 (19.61 %), LD 228,136
(15.31 %), UKIP 144,514 (9.70 %), Green 110,571 (7.42 %), Pro Euro C 27,305
(1.83 %), BNP 12,161 (0.82 %), Soc Lab 7,281 (0.49 %), NLP 2,767 (0.19 %), Ind
Stable 1,857 (0.12 %), Ind Profit 1,400 (0.09 %)

South West

Bath & North East Somerset; Bournemouth; Bristol; Cornwall; Devon; Dorset;
Gloucestershire; North Somerset; Plymouth; Poole; Scilly Isles; Somerset; South
Gloucestershire; Swindon; Torbay; Wiltshire

Electorate 3,852,708 Turnout 37.59%

Elected Neil Parish (C) Mrs Caroline Jackson (C) Giles Chichester (C) Glyn Ford
(Lab) Graham Watson (LD) Graham Booth (UKIP) Roger Knapman (UKIP)

C 457,371 (31.58%)

UKIP 326,784 (22.56%)

LD 265,619 (18.34%)

Lab 209,908 (14.49%)

Green 103,821 (7.17%)

BNP 43,653 (3.01%)

Countryside 30,824 (2.13%)

Respect 10,437 (0.72%)

C maj 130,587 (9.02%)

11.02% swing C to UKIP

1999 C 246,283 (23.63%) C 434,645 (41.70 %), Lab 188,362 (18.07 %), LD 171,498
(16.45 %), UKIP 111,012 (10.65 %), Green 86,630 (8.31 %), Lib 21,645 (2.08 %),
Pro Euro C 11,134 (1.07 %), BNP 9,752 (0.94 %), Soc Lab 5,741 (0.55 %), NLP
1,968 (0.19 %)

Wales

Electorate 2,218,649 Turnout 41.36%

Elected Jonathan Evans (C) Ms Glenys Kinnock (Lab) Ms Eluned Morgan (Lab) Ms
Jill Evans (PC)

Lab 297,810 (32.45%)

C 177,771 (19.37%)

PC 159,888 (17.42%)

UKIP 96,677 (10.53%)

LD 96,116 (10.47%)

Green 32,761 (3.57%)

BNP 27,135 (2.96%)

Forward 17,280 (1.88%)

CDP 6,821 (0.74%)

Respect 5,427 (0.59%)

Lab maj 120,039 (13.08%)

1.99% swing C to Lab

1999 Lab 14,455 (2.31%) Lab 199,690 (31.88 %), PC 185,235 (29.57 %), C 142,631
(22.77 %), LD 51,283 (8.19 %), UKIP 19,702 (3.15 %), Green 16,146 (2.58 %), Pro
Euro C 5,834 (0.93 %), Soc Lab 4,283 (0.68 %), NLP 1,621 (0.26 %)

West Midlands

Herefordshire; Shropshire; Staffordshire; Stoke-on-Trent; Telford & Wrekin;
Warwickshire; West Midlands Metropolitan County; Worcestershire

Electorate 3,996,130 Turnout 35.96%

Elected Philip Bushill-Matthews (C) Philip Bradbourn (C) Malcolm Harbour (C)
Michael Cashman (Lab) Ms Neena Gill (Lab) Ms Liz Lynne (LD) Mike Nattrass (UKIP)

C 392,937 (27.34%)

Lab 336,613 (23.42%)

UKIP 251,366 (17.49%)

LD 197,479 (13.74%)

BNP 107,794 (7.50%)

Green 73,991 (5.15%)

Respect 34,704 (2.41%)

Pensioners 33,501 (2.33%)

CG 8,650 (0.60%)

C maj 56,324 (3.92%)

2.99% swing C to Lab

1999 C 84,048 (9.90%) C 321,719 (37.91 %), Lab 237,671 (28.00 %), LD 95,769
(11.28 %), UKIP 49,621 (5.85 %), Green 49,440 (5.83 %), MEP Ind 36,849 (4.34 %),
Lib 14,954 (1.76 %), BNP 14,344 (1.69 %), Pro Euro C 11,144 (1.31 %), Soc All
7,203 (0.85 %), Soc Lab 5,257 (0.62 %), EFP 3,066 (0.36 %), NLP 1,647 (0.19 %)

Yorkshire & The Humber

East Riding of Yorkshire; Kingston-upon-Hull; North East Lincolnshire; North
Lincolnshire; North Yorkshire; South Yorkshire; West Yorkshire; York

Electorate 3,694,415 Turnout 42.58%

Elected Timothy Kirkhope (C) Edward McMillan-Scott (C) Ms Linda McAvan (Lab)
Richard Corbett (Lab) Ms Diana Wallis (LD) Godfrey Bloom (UKIP)

Lab 413,213 (26.27%)

C 387,369 (24.62%)

LD 244,607 (15.55%)

UKIP 228,666 (14.54%)

BNP 126,538 (8.04%)

Green 90,337 (5.74%)

Respect 29,865 (1.90%)

EDP 24,068 (1.53%)

ND 14,762 (0.94%)

AGS 13,776 (0.88%)

Lab maj 25,844 (1.64%)

3.48% swing C to Lab

1999 C 39,629 (5.33%) C 272,653 (36.64 %), Lab 233,024 (31.32 %), LD 107,168
(14.40 %), UKIP 52,824 (7.10 %), Green 42,604 (5.73 %), Alt Lab 9,554 (1.28 %),
BNP 8,911 (1.20 %), Pro Euro C 8,075 (1.09 %), Soc Lab 7,650 (1.03 %), NLP 1,604
(0.22 %)

Abbreviations of parties standing in the Europe elections in 2004 and 1999:

C Conservative; Lab Labour; LD Liberal Democrat; PC Plaid Cymru; SNP Scottish
National Party; Green Green; Lower Tax Account For Lower Scottish Taxes; AGS
Alliance for Green Socialism; Alt Lab Alternative Labour

Anti- ACPFCA Corruption Pro Family Christian Alliance; AHRPE Architect Human
Rights Peace In Europe; BNP British National Party; CDP Christian Democratic
Party; CPA Christian Peoples Alliance; Countryside Countryside Party; EDP
English Democrats Party; EFP English Freedom Party; Forward Forward Wales;
Humanist Humanist Party; Ind Independent; Anti VAT Independent Anti Value Added
Tax; Ind H Independent Halliday; Ind Hum Independent Humanist Party; Ind Profit
Independent Making A Profit In Europe; Ind Naisbitt Independent Naisbitt; Ind
Stable Independent Open Democracy For Stability; Ind R Independent Rogers; Lib
Liberal; Ind MEP Independent Labour MEP; NLP Natural Law Party; ND No
Description; OCV Operation Christian Vote; Peace Peace Party - Non-violence,
Justice, Environment; Pensioners Pensioners Party PPBG People's Party for Better
Government; Pro Euro C Pro Euro Conservative Party; Prolife Prolife; Respect
Respect the Unity Coalition; SSP Scottish Socialist Party; Senior Senior
Citizens Party; Soc All Socialist Alliance; Soc Lab Socialist Labour Party; SPGB
Socialist Party of Great Britain; CG The Common Good; Hemp The Hemp Coalition;
UKIP UK Independence Party; WW Weekly Worker; Watch Wind Watch Wind


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              363 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2004

Elections 2004: Record low turnout mars EU voting: Europe Results, especially in
the 10 new member states, show apathy and disenchantment about the union and its
parliament

BYLINE: Ian Black in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 715 words


Powerful anti-government protest votes, a record low turnout across the
continent and a strong showing for Eurosceptics marked the biggest European
elections ever held, according to results released last night.

The most striking reflection of this lack of enthusiasm for the European project
came in the EU's 10 new member states, which joined the club only last month
after years of preparations, some 28.7% of those eligible cast their ballots.
Turnout was particularly low in the former eastern block states.

Overall turnout in all 25 countries was 44.2%, rising to 47.7% in the 15 veteran
members. But that was a new low after the 49.8% result in 1999 - and worrying
evidence of popular apathy and disenchantment about a European Union, and a
European parliament, that plays an increasingly important legislative role for
450 million people.

Embarrassingly, turnout has been declining annually since direct elections began
in 1979.

Pat Cox, the outgoing Irish president of the parliament, put a brave face on a
terrible night, saying: "This a democratic exercise of a scale we've never seen
before, with more than 155 million voters."

Britain's drama over the extraordinary rise of the UK Independence party was
mirrored in gains for anti-EU parties in Poland and other new eastern member
states. Unstable coalition governments in several of these new members look
likely to exacerbate the political impact of yesterday's vote. Graham Watson,
the British Liberal Democrat leader, who watched Ukip advance in his own region,
expressed gloom at the outcome.

"It does show that we have failed to get the message to the people of how
important the EU is," he said. "We need the EU for challenges no nation state
can face alone."

In Germany, the union's largest country, there was a humiliating defeat for
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's Social Democrats, largely because of
dissatisfaction over the economy. This was the worst for half a century for the
social democrats: the Christian Democrats topped the poll with 44.5%

That result was typical of a poll that saw incumbent governments suffer across
the EU and saw national issues dominate the campaign at the expense of
pan-European politics. Only the Green party attempted to run a cross-border
campaign.

France saw a heavy blow to the centre-right government of Jean-Pierre Raffarin,
the prime minister, amid record abstention levels. There the salient issues were
pension and welfare reform.

Both Germany and France strongly opposed the US-led war in Iraq. The issue was a
significant feature of the British campaign too.

The new European parliament, with 732 members, will be dominated by the
centre-right, as before, but with a reduced majority and more power being
wielded by sceptics and Europhobes.

Spain was one of the few countries where the govern ment escaped a kicking -
probably because the socialists only took office in March after pledging to
withdraw troops from Iraq.

In Portugal the conservative government was defeated by the opposition
socialists.

Maverick candidates did well: in the Netherlands it was Paul Van Buitenen, the
Brussels whistleblower who helped bring down the European commission in 1999.
His new Transparent Europe movement won two seats.

In Austria there was success for Hans Peter Martin, the Socialist who has
highlighted the controversial abuse of travel allowances by fellow MEPs.

On the far right there was disappointment for Austria's Freedom Party, notorious
for its anti-immigrant sentiments. It lost four of its five seats.

Jean Marie Le Pen's National Front won 10% of French votes.

In Poland, largest of the new member states, a turnout of under 30% brought
gains for opposition parties protesting against corruption and unemployment.

The League of Polish Families, which opposed EU entry in last year's referendum,
won 16% of the vote. But the populist Self-Defence party of Andrzej Lepper,
fared worse than expected with 13%.

Among new member states turnout was high in Cyprus - where voting is usually
compulsory - and in Malta

Meanwhile turnout in Slovakia was 20%. In the Czech Republic, the Eurosceptic
Civic Democrats won 30%, compared with 10% for the prime minister Vladimir
Spidla's Social Democrats.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              364 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

TORIES AND LABOUR CRUSHED UNDER THE WHEELS OF UKIP'S BANDWAGON

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: Final Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words


THE TORIES and Labour suffered big setbacks as the United Kingdom Independence
Party (UKIP) made sweeping gains when the results of last Thursday's elections
to the European Parliament were announced last night.

UKIP, which wants Britain to withdraw from the European Union, took votes from
both main parties after dominating the campaign and sending shockwaves through
the political establishment.

The anti-EU party gained its first European Parliament seat in London, where it
took 12 per cent of votes and both Labour and the Tories ended up with one fewer
seat. UKIP took seats in both the South-east and the South-west, coming second
to the Tories in both regions with more than 20 per cent of the vote. It also
won a seat in Yorkshire and the Humber and the Eastern and West Midlands
regions. The Liberal Democrat vote held firm and the party grabbed a seat in
Labour's North-east heartland.

After results from six regions, the Tories were hurt most by UKIP's surge. Their
vote was down 9 per cent on the last European elections in 1999, Labour's down 5
per cent, with UKIP up 8 per cent and the Liberal Democrats up 3 per cent.

A BBC projection said the Tories were heading for a 28 per cent of the total
votes and possibly their lowest-ever level of support in a UK-wide election and
Labour 23 per cent, which would be the party's worst performance since 1918. It
put both UKIP and the Liberal Democrats on 15 per cent and others on 19 per
cent. The combined share of the vote for Labour and the Tories would be at an
all-time low.

At the last elections five years ago, Labour won 29 seats (with 28 per cent of
the votes), the Conservatives 36 seats (36), UKIP three seats (7), the Liberal
Democrats 10 seats (13), the Greens two seats (6), the SNP two seats (3) and
Plaid Cymru two seats (2).

The number of seats in the UK is being reduced from 87 to 78 following the
expansion of the EU from 15 to 25 members last month. The results for the three
seats in Northern Ireland will be announced today.

Although the UK turnout was higher than the 24 per cent in the 1999 elections,
officials in Brussels predicted the lowest turnout in a European- wide election
of 44.2 per cent, with only 28.7 per cent of voters in the 10 new countries
turning out.

Across the EU, sitting governments were punished as disgruntled voters opted for
opposition politicians, mavericks or Eurosceptics. In Germany, the Social
Democratic Party, led by the Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, went down to a
humiliating defeat as voters exacted retribution for the sluggish state of the
economy. At about 22 per cent, Mr Schroder's share of the vote slumped to less
than half that of his Christian Democrat rivals.

In France, President Jacques Chirac's centre-right party finished a poor second
to the Socialists. Eurosceptics gained in the Czech Republic and Poland, where
the party led by Andrez Lepper, a firebrand Eurosceptic, was performing
strongly.In Austria, Hans-Peter Martin, a maverick MEP who has exposed abuses in
the European Parliament's expenses regime, emerged triumphant by attracting an
impressive 13.8 per cent of the vote on a "clean up Brussels" ticket, winning
two of the country's 18 seats.

Few governments escaped, with the exception of recently elected ones, such as
the Greek centre-right administration and the Spanish Socialist government,
elected after the Madrid terror attack of 11 March.

Centre right parties are expected to be the biggest group in the new European
Parliament, with between 247 and 277 of the 732 seats.

Michael Howard. the Tory leader, will now come under pressure from some
Eurosceptic MPs to harden his party's line on Europe to win back its "lost"
supporters. Some senior Tories fear another outbreak of the party's civil war
over Europe.

Eurosceptics claim Mr Howard's pursuit of a "middle way" on Europe lost votes.
Kenneth Clarke, a former chancellor, warned him not to adopt a more Eurosceptic
line. ring after Robert Kilroy-Silk's vote would be a complete disaster," he
said. According to a YouGov survey of 7,400 people for Sky News,Tory supporters
favour UKIP's policy of pulling out of the EU by 47 per cent to 40 per cent, but
51 per cent of the population as a whole want to stay in and only 33 per cent
want to leave.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              365 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

SWEEPING GAINS BY UKIP DELIVER A BODY BLOW TO THE CONSERVATIVES

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Hungarian women in
traditional costume cast their first votes in the EU yesterday at a polling
station in Veresegyhaza, east of Budapest Laszlo Balogh

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words


THE CONSERVATIVES and Labour suffered big setbacks as the United Kingdom
Independence Party (UKIP) made sweeping gains when the results of last
Thursday's elections to the European Parliament were announced last night.

UKIP, which wants Britain to withdraw from the European Union, was on course to
achieve the best performance by a fringe party in a UK-wide election after
dominating the campaign and sending shockwaves through the mainstream parties.

An opinion poll, taken as Britain voted on Thursday and published last night,
suggested UKIP inflicted more damage on the Conservatives than Labour, winning
votes from one in four people who would back the Tories in a general election.
That would be a body blow for Michael Howard in his first electoral test as Tory
leader. The YouGov survey of 7,400 people for Sky News suggested a close
three-way fight between the Tories, Labour and UKIP in the share of the votes
cast in the European elections, with the Liberal Democrats trailing in fourth
place.

It predicted that Labour and the Tories would each win 22 per cent of the votes
with UKIP breathing down their necks on 20 per cent - a stunning success. It put
the Liberal Democrats on 14 per cent, the Greens on 8 per cent, the British
National Party on 4 per cent and others on 10 per cent.

Such results would give Labour 22 seats in the European Parliament, the Tories
21, UKIP 18, the Liberal Democrats 10, the Greens three and Scottish National
Party (SNP) one. At the last elections five years ago, Labour won 29 seats (with
28 per cent of the votes), the Tories 36 seats (36 per cent), UKIP three seats
(7 per cent); the Liberal Democrats 10 seats (13 per cent); the Greens two seats
(6 per cent); the SNP two seats (3 per cent) and Plaid Cymru two seats (2 per
cent).

The number of seats in the UK is being reduced from 87 to 78 following the
expansion of the EU from 15 to 25 members last month. The results for the three
seats in Northern Ireland will be announced today.

Although the UK turnout was higher than in the 1999 elections, officials in
Brussels predicted the lowest EU-wide turnout in a European election of 44.6 per
cent, with only 28.7 per cent of people in the 10 new countries turning out.

Across the EU, sitting governments were punished as disgruntled voters opted for
opposition politicians, mavericks or Eurosceptics. In Germany, the Social
Democratic Party, led by the Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, went down to a
humiliating defeat as voters extracted retribution over the sluggish state of
the economy. At about 23 per cent, Mr Schroder's share of the vote slumped to
less than half of that of his Christian Democrat rivals. who scored 46.3 per
cent. The trend was repeated in the Czech Republic, one of the EU's 10 new
members, where the Social Democratic Party led by Vladimir Spidla, the Prime
Minister, dropped to third. There Eurosceptics gained, as they were expected to
do in Poland where the party led by Andrez Lepper, a firebrand Eurosceptic, was
expected to prosper.

And in Austria, Hans-Peter Martin, a maverick MEP who has exposed abuses in the
European Parliament's expenses regime, emerged triumphant by attracting an
impressive 13.8 per cent of the vote on a "clean up Brussels" ticket, and
winning two of the country's 18 seats.

Few governments escaped, with the exception of recently elected ones, such as
the Greek centre-right administration and the Spanish Socialist government,
elected after the Madrid terror attack of 11 March. Mr Howard will come under
pressure from some Eurosceptic MPs to harden his party's line on Europe to win
back its "lost" supporters. Some senior Tories fear another outbreak of the
party's damaging civil war over Europe. Eurosceptics claim Mr Howard's pursuit
of a middle way on Europe lost votes. Kenneth Clarke, a former chancellor,
warned him not to adopt a more Eurosceptic line. "To start haring after Robert
Kilroy-Silk's vote would be a complete disaster," he said.

According to YouGov, Tory supporters favour UKIP's policy of pulling out of the
EU by 47 per cent to 40 per cent. But 51 per cent of the population as a whole
want to stay in and only 33 per cent want to leave.

Labour hopes that the damage inflicted on the Tories by UKIP will relieve some
of the pressure on Tony Blair.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              366 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: UKIP AIMS FOR EVERY SEAT AT GENERAL ELECTION

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT Robert Kilroy-Silk has added a
touch of celebrity to the UK Independence Party campaign Tom Pilston

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 646 words


BUOYED BY its extraordinary success last night, the United Kingdom Independence
Party (UKIP) is aiming to put up a candidate in every seat in the country at the
next general election.

UKIP will parade its new haul of MEPs today, seizing the opportunity to
challenge Tony Blair to veto the planned European constitution at this week's
summit in Brussels.

It scored major victories in three regions in each of which it doubled its
number of Euro-MPs to two. They were the South-West, where it won 23 per cent of
the vote, the South-East, where it gained 20 per cent of the vote, and the
Eastern Region, where it picked up 20 per cent support.

In all three regions it came second in the popular vote, appearing to be picking
up support from all parties. However, the Conservatives were the biggest losers
with UKIP appearing most popular with rural and suburban electors.

UKIP also won its first European MPs in London and Yorkshire and the Humber.

The successful UKIP candidate on London, Gerard Batten, said: "The genie has
been released from the bottle."

He went on: "This is a great victory for the UK Independence Party. But it is an
even greater victory for all those people in Britain who value freedom,
independence and democracy."

With votes declared in seven regions, UKIP was scoring about 16 per cent of the
vote, more than double its share in previous European elections.

The party, which is committed to pulling Britain out of the European Union, is
also planning to ride its current wave of popularity into the election contest
expected in less than 12 months' time.

At the 2001 election it fielded 434 candidates, almost all of whom lost their
deposits, and polled an average 1.5 per cent across the country. If UKIP
candidates stand in all 659 constituencies and pick up an average of 10 per cent
support, they may not win any seats in Parliament but, by siphoning off
thousands of votes from the major parties, could have a profound effect on the
election's outcome.

Despite signs that the party is gathering support in all the English regions and
from across the political spectrum, the Conservatives remain most at risk from
the UKIP surge. Lord Tebbit, the former Tory chairman, said yesterday: "Voting
UKIP for a lot of Conservative voters is a way of firing a shot across the bows
of the Conservative Party. The trouble is that if they are not careful they
could fire it a bit close to the waterline."

The UKIP European election campaign caught fire through a mixture of luck and
skill. The lack of enthusiasm for the Tories, matched by discontent with the
Government, has been adroitly managed by the party, which is being advised by
the publicist Max Clifford.

It achieved a public relations coup by announcing that Robert Kilroy- Silk, the
former daytime television presenter, would be standing as a candidate. Before
long, he was joined by the actress Joan Collins, four Tory peers and a former
Tory MP.

The party built up a pounds 2m election warchest - a quarter from retired Kent
bookmaker Alan Bown - enabling it to outspend its larger rivals on posters and
leaflets. Before long it was achieving opinion poll ratings of about 15 per
cent, establishing it as best placed to pick up protest votes.

It claims to have built up a membership of about 25,000, putting it close to
half the size of the Liberal Democrats.

Although it gained two London Assembly seats last week and its first councillors
in Derby and Hull, it has only a tiny band of between 40 and 50 councillors,
suggesting voters are more sceptical about giving its representatives a platform
outside Brussels and Strasbourg.

The party's challenge is to break out of its single-issue straitjacket and
persuade voters it has a fully formed philosophy.

Leading article, page 30

Bruce Anderson and Thomas Kielinger, page 31

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              367 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: KILROY-SILK, MAN OF THE PEOPLE, PLAYS THE PATRIOTIC CARD IN
FRONT OF THE TELEVISION

BYLINE: ARIFA AKBAR

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 353 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK last night displayed all the confidence of a man surfing a
political wave as he switched on to the England v France football match in his
hotel room.

Less than a mile away the East Midlands count before the European Parliamentary
Elections - at which he is standing in his latest permutation as UKIP candidate
- was commencing, but Mr Kilroy-Silk was busy showing the world where his
patriotic loyalties lay.

"I'm just about to watch the game," he said nonchalantly as he sat down with his
wife, Jan, and his fellow UKIP compatriot, Derek Clark, who had stepped down as
first preference a mere seven weeks ago to allow Mr Kilroy-Silk the star
position.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's high profile campaign for UKIP has been credited with boosting
the party's fortunes since the former Labour MP joined its ranks.

But arriving at Lings Forum Leisure Centre in a suave blue suit and tie he
looked less certain of the night's outcome.

He had turned up earlier - before the football - to register his name and some
had found his television-friendly manner overwhelming. One sceptic said: "All
the candidates were queuing up when he barged in and his camp had a bit of a
hissy fit."

But if Mr Kilroy-Silk was not certain of victory, his UKIP entourage was.

Mr Clark and Peter Baker, the No.4 UKIP contender, both conceded Kilroy- Silk's
celebrity status had elevated their hopes for the party.

"The celebrity element has made a difference, as well as his connections with
the media. What he's done is opened up our profile. No one would talk about us
until Kilroy-Silk joined," said Mr Baker.

Mr Clarke conceded he may never have watched one of his shows, or indeed think
much of Joan Collins, Mr Kilroy-Silk's glamorous supporter, but he said what was
important is that he was a genuine bloke who you could enjoy a pint with. He
dismissed the idea that Mr Kilroy-Silk's dismissal by the BBC for his
inflammatory comments would besmirch the reputation of the party.

"When I first met him I knew I was standing with someone who speaks for truth
and not political correctness."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              368 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: SCEPTICS' SUCCESS PUTS HOWARD UNDER FRESH PRESSURE

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Michael Howard: May take a tougher line on Europe

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 448 words


MICHAEL HOWARD, the Tory leader, will come under pressure to toughen party
policy on Europe after seeing the UK Independence Party make major inroads into
its support.

Although the party received the largest share of the vote nationally, it was a
mixed set of results for the opposition. With support falling to less than 30
per cent - down from the 36 per cent gained by the party in previous
Euro-elections - it illustrated the mountain the Tories have to climb to win the
next election.

A combination of cuts in numbers of seats and UKIP's success led to the Tories
losing one MEP in each of the Eastern Region, London, the South- east, the
South-west and Yorkshire and the Humber.

That took some of the shine off the Tories' successes in the local council
elections last week, which saw them win control of several areas, including
Trafford, Swindon, Eastbourne and Brentwood.

The European election results will strengthen the hand of Tory right- wingers
pressing for the party to take a more Eurosceptic stance at the next election.

The Tory deputy leader Michael Ancram said the result of this election reflected
public disillusion with the European Union. He said: "The message to Tony Blair
before he goes to Brussels this week to negotiate again on the constitution is
that the British people are very concerned and suspicious about what is
happening in Europe."

But the shadow environment secretary Caroline Spelman insisted that the party's
position would remain unchanged. She said: "We want to remain in Europe. We'd
like to see a more flexible Europe, less bureaucratic, less red tape.

"But that is very definitely the middle position, the centre ground, and I think
that is the right place to be."

The pro-European former Chancellor Kenneth Clarke said: "To start chasing after
Robert Kilroy-Silk's vote would be a complete disaster.

"The great thing I would say is: For heaven's sake, don't panic in the face of a
protest vote in the European elections at a time when a lot of the population
are in a mood to protest against the state of politics anyway.'"

The Trade and Industry Secretary Patricia Hewitt admitted that they faced
another "disappointing" night but insisted the results were even worse for the
Tories. "We have always known that there's a minority of the British people who
are adamantly against the EU and would like Britain to come out," she said.

"But that poses a huge strategic problem for the Conservative Party. Do they go
on becoming more and more Eurosceptic, pandering to the UKIP in order to shore
up that part of their vote? It is the Conservative Party for whom this result
looks like a disaster."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              369 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: KILROY-SILK DRAGS HIMSELF AWAY FROM THE TELEVISION TO ACCEPT HIS
POLITICAL DESTINY

BYLINE: ARIFA AKBAR

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 354 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK last night displayed all the confidence of a man surfing a
political wave as he switched on to the England vs France football match in his
hotel room.

Less than a mile away from his accommodation in the East Midlands, the vote
count was underway in the European Parliamentary elections - at which he won a
seat for the UKIP last night - but Mr Kilroy-Silk was busy showing the world
where his patriotic loyalties lay.

"I'm just about to watch the game," he said nonchalantly as he sat down with his
wife, Jan, and his fellow UKIP compatriot, Derek Clark, who had stepped down as
first preference a mere seven weeks ago to allow Mr Kilroy-Silk the star
position.

When he did deign to join the throng, the former MP and daytime TV presenter was
duly- if belatedly - elected to the European Parliament, along with Mr Clark. He
soon returned to his familiar theme.

"It Europe happens to be the most important single issue of our generation," he
said. "The British public want their country back from Brussels, from the
corrupt, fraudulent, dictatorial regime of Brussels."

Mr Kilroy-Silk's high-profile campaign for UKIP has been credited with boosting
the party's fortunes. But arriving earlier at Lings Forum leisure centre, he
looked less certain of the night's outcome.

He had turned up before the football to register his name and some had found his
television-friendly manner overwhelming. One sceptic said: "All the candidates
were queuing up when he barged in and his camp had a hissy fit."

Mr Clark and Peter Baker, the number four UKIP contender, both conceded
Kilroy-Silk's celebrity status had elevated the party. "The celebrity element
has made a difference, as well as his connections with the media. What he's done
is opened up our profile. No one would talk about us until Kilroy-Silk joined,"
said Mr Baker.

Mr Clarke dismissed the idea that Mr Kilroy-Silk's dismissal by the BBC for his
inflammatory comments would besmirch the party. "When I first met him I knew I
was standing with someone who speaks for truth and not political correctness,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              370 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: LIBERAL DEMOCRATS CELEBRATE NORTH-EAST SEAT

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Charles Kennedy: Believes that the Liberal Democrats are
now Labour's main challenge in the heartlands

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 339 words


CHARLES KENNEDY hailed a breakthrough for the Liberal Democrats as they won
their first Euro-MP in the North-east, previously barren territory for the
party.

The victory, on a night when the Liberal Democrat vote held up despite a surge
of support for the UK Independence Party, came after the party won control of
Newcastle City Council.

The Liberal Democrats won 17.8 per cent of the vote in the region, a sharp
increase on their 13.5 per cent share in the last European elections and enough
to win it one of the three seats on offer. Teacher Fiona Hall became the party's
first MEP in the North-east.

Mr Kennedy said: "Taken together with the local election results, this means it
is the Liberal Democrats who will be challenging Labour in the former heartlands
in the next general election."

In London, the party retained its Euro-MP, Sarah Ludford, as its share of the
vote rose from 11.7 per cent to 15.3 per cent. It also held on to its seat in
Yorkshire and the Humber, where its support increased from 14.4 per cent to 15.6
per cent.

Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrat chief executive, said it seemed to be the
only one of the three main parties not to be losing support.

"The Conservative and Labour parties are at their lowest level since either of
them began fighting elections on a national basis," he said.

The Liberal Democrats also held on to their seat in the South-west and their two
seats in the South-east.

The vote for the Green Party was also holding up in early results. It retained
the London seat held by Jean Lambert and the South-east seat represented by
Caroline Lucas.

But George Galloway, the former Labour MP, failed in his bid in the capital to
win a European seat for the Respect coalition of anti-war groups and Muslim
organisations. He picked up 4.8 per cent of the ballot, with 91,175 votes.

He vowed that future elections would see his party "give Tony Blair a bloody
good hiding" and signalled that he planned to stand in east London at the next
election.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              371 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: HOW AN ACADEMIC'S PLAYTHING LAID WASTE TO THE MAINSTREAM

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 484 words


FOR SEVEN long years, Britain's political class has collectively bemoaned the
reluctance of voters to go to the polls. Their apathy seemed to challenge its
right to rule. Now at last those days appear to be over. But it has brought
little comfort to Britain's mainstream politicians. For apathy has been replaced
by an even bigger problem - antipathy.

True, most voters stayed at home. Not even the delivery of a ballot paper into
their home could entice as many as a half to mark their cross. But even so, by
the standards of past European elections, the nearly two in five who did vote
constituted a record turnout.

Indeed, Britain no longer lies at the bottom of the league table for European
election turnout, a record now held easily by Poland.

But the expanded electorate put a devastating message in the ballot box. The
opinion polls suggest that almost as many people would like to pull out as
believe we should stay in, and that the public appears to be less sympathetic to
the European Union now than at any time in the past 20 years. Yet none of
Britain's main political parties, including even the nationalist parties in
Scotland and Wales, believe that Britain should pull out of Europe. As a result,
voters have been presented with little real choice on Europe, just different
shades of grey.

However, in this European election the public mood voiced by a former daytime
television presenter who, just months after being sacked for penning a
politically incorrect column, proved himself a more adept campaigner than all of
the mainstream politicians put together. Once the plaything of an academic, UKIP
has now managed to garner the support of about 15 per cent of voters. In so
doing, it has presented a fundamental challenge to the European consensus that
has hitherto been maintained by the main political parties.

Most immediately it is a challenge that has done most damage to the
Conservatives. Whereas the local ballot boxes put the Conservatives well ahead,
in the European election the party has struggled to keep ahead of the Labour
Party and fallen well short of its 1999 support. UKIP captured much of the
anti-European vote the Tories thought was their own.

Yet UKIP's performance also raises longer term questions for Labour. Even if it
does recover from the mid-term blues and wins a third term, it may well find
itself, as Norman Lamont once said of John Major's ill- fated government, "in
office but not in power". Few would now give Tony Blair much chance of winning a
referendum on the European constitution, let alone achieve his historic aim of
taking Britain into the single European currency - both of them key aims of a
Blairite third term. Of course, there is one Labour politician for whom such a
prospect might not be so unattractive - the Chancellor, Gordon Brown. John
Curtice is professor of politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              372 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: LIBERAL DEMOCRATS CELEBRATE VICTORY IN NORTH-EAST

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 255 words


CHARLES KENNEDY hailed a breakthrough for the Liberal Democrats as they won
their first Euro-MP in the North-east, previously barren territory for the
party.

The victory, on a night when the Liberal Democrat vote held up despite a surge
of support for the UK Independence Party, came after the party won control of
Newcastle City Council.

The Liberal Democrats won 17.8 per cent of the vote in the region, a sharp
increase on their 13.5 per cent share in the last European elections and enough
to win it one of the three seats on offer. Teacher Fiona Hall became the party's
first MEP in the North-east.

Mr Kennedy said: "Taken together with the local election results, this means it
is the Liberal Democrats who will be challenging Labour in the former heartlands
in the next general election."

In London, the party retained its MEP, Sarah Ludford, as its share of the vote
rose from 11.7 per cent to 15.3 per cent. It also held on to its seat in
Yorkshire and the Humber, where its support increased from 14.4 per cent to 15.6
per cent. The party also held on to its seat in the South-west and two seats in
the South-east.

The vote for the Green Party was also holding up in early results. It retained
the London seat held by Jean Lambert and the South-east seat represented by
Caroline Lucas.

But George Galloway, the former Labour MP, failed in his bid in the capital to
win a seat for the Respect coalition of anti-war groups and Muslim
organisations. He picked up 4.8 per cent of the ballot.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              373 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: HOWARD HAS A WAY TO GO TO WIN OUR VOTES'

BYLINE: JAMES STURCKE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 398 words


PETER BOMFORD, a retired agricultural engineer, returned from a holiday in
Latvia last week. He speaks conversational French and regularly travels to
continental Europe. In past elections he has voted Liberal Democrat and before
that Conservative.

But on Thursday, Mr Bomford, from Liverton, Devon, gave his vote to the UK
Independence Party. He was not alone. The South-west region, in which he voted,
is seen as the UKIP's heartland.

The largely white and rural constituency - which includes 21,000 voters in
Gibraltar - acted as a launch pad for its remarkable nationwide success. Both
the South-west and Gibraltar should be - and historically have been - fertile
Tory ground.

Eleven Conservative MPs were elected in Devon and Cornwall in 1992. At the last
election the number fell to four. It is a region that the Tories must regain to
return to government, yet despite heavy canvassing before Thursday's vote, their
leader, Michael Howard, has some way to go in winning back former supporters.

Mr Bomford, 63, said: "I voted for UKIP because of rising discontent about the
apparently unstoppable progress towards more integration with the rest of the
EU. I am not happy about where we are already, let alone getting further meshed
into its bureaucracy. This seems a good opportunity to make my views clear and
there are plenty of other people around here who feel the same and have voted
for UKIP.

"This wasn't a general election. Things might change next time. But Michael
Howard has a lot of baggage - certainly in this house he is not yet trusted."

John Curtice, a professor of politics at Strathclyde University, said: "UKIP's
strength in the South-west is partly to do with the farming and fishing
industries and the perception that those industries do not do well out of the
EU. Also, the age structure of the region is towards the elderly side.

"UKIP has done particularly well in coastal resorts. The kind of person who
retires to the English Riviera tends to be lower middle class, not been to
university and have a strong British identity.

"Then there is Robert Kilroy-Silk, who has strong support from people who watch
daytime television. He has been by far the most effective politician in this EU
campaign.

"Finally, UKIP has none of the bad odours of the BNP. Who you rather have dinner
with: Robert Kilroy-Silk or Nick Griffin?"

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              374 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: UKIP AIMS TO STAND IN EVERY SEAT AT NEXT GENERAL ELECTION

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT The former television presenter
and UKIP candidate Robert Kilroy- Silk in London yesterday Tom Pilston

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 453 words


BUOYED BY its extraordinary success last night, the United Kingdom Independence
Party (UKIP) is aiming to put up a candidate in every seat in the country at the
next general election.

UKIP will parade its new haul of MEPs today, seizing the opportunity to
challenge Tony Blair to veto the planned European constitution at this week's
summit in Brussels.

But the party, which is committed to pulling Britain out of the European Union,
is also planning to ride its current wave of popularity into the election
contest expected in less than 12 months' time.

At the 2001 election it fielded 434 candidates, almost all of whom lost their
deposits, and polled an average 1.5 per cent across the country. If UKIP
candidates stand in all 659 constituencies and pick up an average of 10 per cent
support, they may not win any seats but, by siphoning off thousands of votes
from the major parties, could have a profound effect on the election's outcome.

Despite signs that the party is gathering support in all the English regions and
from across the political spectrum, the Conservatives remain most at risk from
the UKIP surge. Lord Tebbit, the former Tory chairman, said yesterday: "Voting
UKIP for a lot of Conservative voters is a way of firing a shot across the bows
of the Conservative Party. The trouble is that if they are not careful they
could fire it a bit close to the waterline."

The UKIP European election campaign caught fire through a mixture of luck and
skill. The lack of enthusiasm for the Tories, matched by discontent with the
Government, has been adroitly managed by the party, which is being advised by
the publicist Max Clifford. It achieved a public relations coup by announcing
that Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former daytime television presenter, would be
standing as a candidate. Before long, he was joined by the actress Joan Collins,
four Tory peers and a former Tory MP.

The party built up a pounds 2m election warchest, enabling it to outspend its
larger rivals on posters and leaflets. Before long it was achieving opinion poll
ratings of about 15 per cent, establishing it as best placed to pick up protest
votes.

It claims to have built up a membership of around 25,000, putting it close to
half the size of the Liberal Democrats. Although it gained two London Assembly
seats last week, it still has only a tiny band of between 40 and 50 councillors,
suggesting voters are slightly more sceptical of giving UKIP representatives a
platform outside Brussels and Strasbourg.

The party's main challenge now is to break out of its single-issue straitjacket
and persuade disillusioned voters that it has a fully-formed political
philosophy before the general election.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              375 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: EU IS TOO YOUNG AND WEAK TO SHRUG OFF AN ELECTORATE'S APATHY

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE A Finn prepares to cast his vote yesterday at Helsinki
City Hall AFP/Getty Images

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 666 words


IN 1999, when turnout dipped below 50 per cent for the first time in Europe-wide
elections, some officials in Brussels thought they had seen voter apathy at its
most extreme. Now they know better.

Just two months after the EU celebrated the historic reunification of the
continent by admitting 10 new, mainly ex-Communist countries, it has received a
sobering message from its public.

Well under half of the 350 million eligible voterscast a ballot during the four
days of elections across the continent, producing a new record low turnout. And
of those that did, an increased number backed Eurosceptics.

True, this electoral contest is hardly unique in seeing a drop in voter
participation. Most national elections have followed a similar trend and, as
MEPs point out, no one questions the legitimacy of democracy in America when
less than half the population turns out to vote.

But for a young institution which has gained a wide array of powers without
connecting properly to its population, the result is deeply damaging.

The year after they turned out to vote in referendums on whether to join the EU,
an alarming number of voters in the new nations decided to stay at home. In
Slovakia barely one-fifth of those entitled to vote did so - hitting a new low
point - with only slightly more Poles bothering.

Ironically, the results do little to the overall arithmetic of the European
Parliament. Early projections suggest that the centre-right bloc will remain the
largest with between 247 and 277 MEP, followed by the socialists with 189 to
209, and the Liberals scoring between 54 and 70. Those figures will almost
certainly change with the Liberals taking some MEPs from the centre-right
because of an internal shift of alliances.

Yet beneath this picture of continuity an earthquake has taken place. Of the 732
MEPs elected to the Strasbourg assembly, maybe one tenth will be hostile to the
EU in its current form. And - for the first time - there will be a significant
number who hate the whole enterprise so much they want to take their country out
of the EU.

Meanwhile, the existing centre-right groups may well shift in a Eurosceptic
direction to try to see off the affect from their rivals. Among the reduced
British Conservative MEP contingent, for example, the balance will change, with
some of the pro-Europeans losing their seats.

In one respect this could, perversely, be a good moment for the European
Parliament. The new intake is likely to be more lively than the old one,
complete with mavericks like Robert Kilroy-Silk, the British former daytime TV
presenter, and Hans-Peter Martin, the MEP who used a video camera to expose the
shenanigans of his colleagues in claiming their generous allowances.

Moreover, the injection of more Eurosceptics will bring the political centre of
gravity of the parliament closer to that of the European public opinion.

Pat Cox, outgoing president of the parliament, argued last night that, for
Britain, "there may be a silver lining in the UKIP results because they have a
very clear and strident view about what they want to see. The others have to
realise that you cannot be slightly pregnant in being for Europe. Those who
believe in it have to deliver and stop hanging back."

Indeed, a proper debate within the EU's only directly-elected institution can
only be for the good. The question is whether this diverse band of Eurosceptics
will play that role and exploit their new position of influence.

During the past five years, UKIP's three MEPs have made almost no impact on the
parliament, and Mr Kilroy-Silk said during the election campaign that he does
not intend to go to Strasbourg.

As one official put it last night, "There is going to be a large proportion of
the new parliament that are not going to do anything very much at all. The
Eurosceptics are, because of their divisions, going to be neutered." That,
paradoxically, would be more bad news for the European Parliament.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              376 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: ANGER AS 500,000 BALLOT PAPERS IN THE CAPITAL RULED INVALID

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT Ken Livingstone was re-elected
comfortably, but Labour lost two seats on the assembly Chris Young/PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 573 words


MORE THAN half a million voting forms for the London mayor and assembly
elections were filled out wrongly, prompting warnings that the capital's voting
system needs to be overhauled.

Labour's Ken Livingstone comfortably fought off a challenge from Steve Norris,
the Tory candidate, to secure his second spell in city hall. Labour lost two of
its seats on the assembly, while the UK Independence Party (UKIP) gained its
first foothold in London.

The announcement of the results on Friday night was held up as returning
officers scrutinised the hundreds of thousands of forms that had been
incorrectly filled in.

Voters were asked to record their first and second choice for the mayor by
putting a cross in one column for each. A total of 56,862 (3 per cent) of
first-choice selections were ruled invalid, while 329,090 (17.1 per cent) of
second choices were ruled out. Common mistakes included putting both selections
in the same column, leaving the second column blank or putting a cross through
two boxes.

Electors also had two votes in the assembly elections, one for a constituency
representative and one from a party list. A total of 118,535 (6.2%) of the
former and 48,536 (2.5%) of the latter were rejected as invalid.

The Electoral Commission will study the London ballot as part of its examination
of the "Super Thursday" elections, which included an experiment with all-postal
voting in four English regions.

John Bennett, the deputy returning officer for Greater London, said it had
became clear after the previous mayoral and assembly elections in 2000 that the
city's voting forms needed to be improved.

"We just knew that what happened in 2000 wasn't right," he told the BBC
yesterday. "We wanted to agree something between all parties that would be okay
for 2004 because the Government only had a particular window of opportunity to
change the legislation. We missed that window, we could not continue the
dialogue; that dialogue must resume."

Among his suggestions is printing clearer guidance on the mayoral voting slips
and issuing the constituency and city-wide forms for the London Assembly
separately.

Bob Neill, a Tory Assembly member, said: "Let's look at the design of the forms
again."

Once second-preference votes were taken into account, Mr Livingstone beat Mr
Norris by 685,541 to 542,423 votes. Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat
candidate, trailed in a distant third, with UKIP's Frank Maloney fourth. Darren
Johnson, of the Green Party, was beaten into seventh place by the far-left
Respect coalition and the hard-Right British National Party (BNP).

The re-elected mayor will have to deal with an assembly that is likely to be
hostile to his programme, including his spending plans and proposals to extend
the congestion-charging zone westwards into Kensington and Chelsea. The assembly
now comprises nine Tories (unchanged), seven Labour members (down two), five
Liberal Democrats (up one), two UKIP members (up two) and two Greens (down one).

Labour will have been alarmed to have won only 25 per cent of the vote in the
capital, which is certain to be a key battleground in the general election
expected next year. A slump in support on that scale could jeopardise as many as
20 Labour MPs with small majorities, although the great unknown is whether the
"protest votes" cast for UKIP, Respect, the BNP and the Greens will return to
the mainstream parties.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              377 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTIONS 2004: FORTUNES OF RULING PARTIES FLAG ACROSS A CONTINENT

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 553 words


AUSTRIA

Hans Peter Martin, the MP who uncovered the lavish allowances at the EU, was the
big winner with 14 percent of the vote.

BELGIUM

Belgium's ruling government of Liberals and Socialists showed modest gains.
Conservatives and the far-right would also gain.

CYPRUS

A high turnout of 71 per cent saw four of the six seats won by parties opposed
to the UN reunification plan for the island.

CZECH REPUBLIC

Heavy defeat for governing coalition of Prime Minister Vladimir Spidla with
strong showing by Eurosceptics.

DENMARK

The country's 14 seats look set to go mostly to the Social Democrats in a vote
against Anders Fogh Rasmussen's Liberal Party.

ESTONIA

Social Democrats took three of the six EU assembly seats, led by former foreign
minister Ivar Padar, Toomas Hendrik and Marianne Mikko.

FINLAND

Former PM Anneli Jaatteenmaki, drew the most votes as his Centre Party and the
conservative National Coalition Party won four seats.

FRANCE

The Socialists soundly defeated President Jacques Chirac's conservative party,
with a record number of abstentions in the poll.

GERMANY

Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's party slumped to its worst score since the Second
World War over economic reforms.

GREECE

A significant win for the New Democracy Party received about 45 per cent of the
vote. Complete results were expected early Monday.

HUNGARY

The opposition Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Union took 12 seats, three more than the
governing Socialist Party, according to early results.

IRELAND

Prime Minister Bertie Ahern's ruling Fianna Fail party suffered its worst
election result, while Sinn Fein achieved a breakthrough.

ITALY

Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi suffered losses, with his government being
punished for Iraq. He was edged out by left-wing parties.

LATVIA

Exit polls indicated that nationalist parties were likely to make a strong
showing by exploiting voter fears of immigration.

LITHUANIA

The Populist Labor Party, founded by Viktor Uspasky, an ethnic Russian
millionaire, dominated elections of 13 new members.

LUXEMBOURG

The Christian Democrats of Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker took almost 40 per
cent of the vote with the Socialists in second.

MALTA

The Nationalist Party, which had backed entry to the EU, conceded that the
Labour party would win most of the island's five seats.

NETHERLANDS

Centre-right coalition, led by PM Jan Peter Balkenende, had a setback, with the
Socialists and an EU whistleblower making gains.

POLAND

The ruling left-wing party were pushed into third place behind the pro-EU
centrists and Catholic League of Polish Families.

PORTUGAL

Overwhelming victory for the Socialists over the Conservative coalition
government, with a projected 44.5 per cent of the vote.

SLOVAKIA

Early results show a large support for right-wing parties. Turnout was at a
record low of 27.6 per cent.

SLOVENIA

The right-wing New Slovenia party scooped 23.2 per cent of the votes.

SPAIN

Voters rewarded new Socialist government for pulling troops out of Iraq.

SWEDEN

Governing Social Democrats' result overshadowed by Eurosceptic June List.

UNITED KINGDOM

UK Independence Party finished third behind Labour, with the Tories top.

Anne Penketh

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              378 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

LEADING ARTICLE: BY NOT MAKING THEIR CASE, PRO-EUROPEANS BEAR MUCH
RESPONSIBILITY FOR UKIP'S SUCCESS

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 655 words


THE ELECTIONS to the European Parliament were one of the greatest exercises in
democracy ever to have taken place anywhere. That they passed off freely,
peacefully and essentially fairly, may be something that, as Europeans, we take
for granted - we would have been shocked at anything else - but such
expectations do not make this massive poll any less of an achievement. Such
amity across so many national borders would have been inconceivable, probably
even to the most visionary of the Common Market's founders, less than half a
century ago.

The remarkable phenomenon of Europe, as embodied in the European Union and the
European Parliament, is something that its supporters need to talk about far
more often and far more loudly than they do. For there was another aspect to
these elections, especially in this country, which was little short of tragic.
This was the extent to which the campaign was dominated by those not only
sceptical of the benefits of belonging to Europe, but downright hostile to the
whole enterprise.

In so far as we heard anything from anyone about the Euro-elections, we heard
about the iniquities of a European super-state and the decisions supposedly
taken out of ordinary citizens' hands. Much of the hostility trailed more than a
whiff of xenophobia. Such discussion as there was slipped all too easily into
arguments about the ease of crossing frontiers and the supposed "threat" from
migration. The flashy campaign conducted by the UK Independence Party (UKIP)
tapped into a Rule Britannia mindset in which patriotism and chauvinism are
dangerously intertwined.

It would be defeatist to conclude, however, that the success of the UKIP
campaign shows only how strong anti-European sentiment in Britain remains. At
least one reason for UKIP's strong showing is that it ran an attractive, modern
and energetic campaign. Another was that it had a single, simply understood,
message of opposition to Europe. None of the other parties contesting the
European elections ran a campaign that came close to UKIP's in terms of
directness, simplicity or glitz.

Only the Tories, whose divisions on the issue are as corrosive as they are well
known, had any real excuse for being tentative about Europe. The real shame, the
real lost opportunity, was the mealy-mouthed support for Europe expressed by the
supposedly pro-European parties, notably Labour and the Liberal Democrats. They
allowed UKIP to run away with the votes.

The mainstream pro-Europe parties might say in mitigation that they, more than
UKIP, were campaigning also for local council seats, and therefore had to
address several constituencies, on several issues, at once. Yet among all the
issues they did address, it was hard to discern any serious effort to present
the undoubted benefits that accrue to Britain from Europe or to address the
arguments that UKIP made. Who, out of all the pro-Europeans in the Cabinet - the
Prime Minister included - came out with any forthright advocacy of Britain's
future in the EU in advance of these elections? They did not even reprise the
old arguments for EU membership: from 60 years of peace, through expanded trade
and investment, to the freedom for Britons to travel and work anywhere in
Europe. So used have we become to these advantages, that we forget to mention
them. But they belong in the political debate.

The Euro-election campaign, such as it was in Britain, was a missed opportunity
and a dereliction of duty on the part of our most senior pro-European
politicians. But the outcome may not be wholly negative. A larger Euro- sceptic
contingent in Strasbourg - not just from Britain, but from some of the hitherto
most enthusiastic "new" European countries as well - means that the debate about
the European Union may be joined at a more searching level by a parliament that
is more genuinely representative of Europe's 350 million voters than ever
before.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              379 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

BRITAIN HAS AN ALLERGY TO EUROPE, AND EVEN TONY BLAIR KNOWS HE CANNOT CURE IT;
 ELECTIONS 2004

BYLINE: BRUCE ANDERSON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1184 words


Tony Blair tried to gerrymander the recent elections in two ways. One worked,
one did not. Postal ballots were not a success. Mr Blair overrode the
recommendations of the Electoral Commission and the doubts of the House of
Lords. He insisted on postal ballots in four regions rather than two, in the
hope of maximising the turnout of Labour voters. He merely maximised the turnout
of those who, in John Prescott's words, wanted to give the Labour government a
good kicking.

This electoral experiment was bound to be complex. There was always the danger
of chaos. Yet Mr Blair entrusted it to a man who can barely speak his own
language. The outcome was predictable. Under John Prescott's direction, it was
the electoral process which got a good kicking.

There have been numerous allegations that the postal ballots were polluted by
fraud. It is to be hoped that these are thoroughly investigated and that the
defective results will be challenged in the courts. In the course of the 19th
century, it was gradually recognised that a secret ballot is an essential
democratic safeguard. It is equally essential that most voters should not cast
their ballots until polling day; otherwise, there is little point in an election
campaign.

Anyone who does not share Tony Blair's contempt for electoral integrity must
hope that some of his cynical experiments will be struck down by judicial
review.

The political cynicism is harder to override. Mr Blair's second manipulation was
to ensure that the local elections would be held on the same day as the European
elections. All common sense should revolt against that decision. Local elections
ought to be about local issues; European ones, about Europe. But Mr Blair did
not want an election on Europe. It would have caused him embarrassment. Equally,
he was happy to give the United Kingdom Independence Party a means of increasing
its vote in the local contests, at the Tories' expense. That certainly cost the
Tories one seat in the London Assembly, and no doubt others as well in councils.

Tony Blair also had a longer-term goal. Tory canvassers who encountered
deserters to UKIP report that most of them declared their intention of returning
to the Tories for the general election. Not all will. Mr Blair has calculated
that a good UKIP result now will enable that party to win more votes at the next
election.

Extreme parties reserve an especial hatred for their mainstream competitors.
UKIP, which nurses fantasies about one day replacing the Tories, is likely to
make a strong effort in Labour/Tory marginals. Even if it only wins 3 per cent
at a general election, two and a half of that will probably come from the
Tories. This adds a further contour line to Michael Howard's already mountainous
challenge.

So Mr Blair will not be depressed by his poor performance in the various
electoral forums. He has achieved his principal objective: to make it even
harder for the Tories to defeat him. Yet in terms of his supposed principles,
there has been a heavy cost. There may also be a miscalculation.

The cost relates to Europe and Mr Blair's own ambitions. Tony Blair thinks of
himself as a devoted European. Indeed, he had expected to be the most
pro-European premier since Ted Heath. He had intended to use his hold over
British public opinion to persuade the voters that their destiny lay in Europe.
So what happens, seven years into a Blair government? He fights a European
election in which Europe is hardly mentioned. He does not try to persuade the
voters to love Europe; he simply wants them to hate Michael Howard.

There may be some level of self-deception at which Tony Blair still thinks that
he could win a referendum campaign on the European constitution. If so, only he
is deluded. Europe has never had less resonance with British public opinion;
Euro-idealism has never seemed more out of date. A few retired diplomats and
former Tory cabinet ministers still pretend to one another that there is a
European cause in Britain. To everyone else, they sound like dear old boys
reminiscing about a nightclub that closed 40 years ago. Jacques Delors is right.
Britain is allergic to Europe, and Tony Blair has given up trying to cure the
allergy because he thinks that Michael Howard will sneeze the loudest.

This is where he may be miscalculating. Even if he has now forgotten it, he did
owe a lot of his electoral appeal to a reputation for honesty. He may also have
come to assume that no one ever lost an election by underestimating the voters'
intelligence. He could yet prove himself wrong. A lot of voters now believe that
this is a man who often tells them lies. Though they may not understand all the
details, the electoral trickery has reinforced the message that this man is not
to be trusted, and deserves further kickings.

But not all Tony Blair's negatives are turning into Michael Howard's positives.
The Tories spent too much of the election campaign on the defensive, wanting to
attack UKIP yet also reluctant to give it the oxygen of publicity; unable to
find one big idea to convince the voters that the party has a lot of good
smaller ideas, plus election-winning momentum.

There may be a way out of this. The voters do not yet have a strong impression
of Michael Howard's beliefs. Tony Blair is trying to fill the gap by assuring
them that Mr Howard is a blend of Dracula, Frankenstein's monster and Jack The
Ripper.

It is time for Mr Howard to rebut this by giving his own account of himself. At
this year's Tory Party conference, he ought to produce a pamphlet which would in
effect form a pre-manifesto. Entitled "Michael Howard's Britain", it should set
out his intentions and his values in a fusion of policy proposals and personal
narrative.

There is a political vacuum in this country, which would provide an opportunity
for a skilful opposition. Many people think of themselves as disillusioned with
politics. They insist that all that lot are as bad as each other and that there
is no point in voting for any of them. Yet they really want a better
alternative.

A lot of voters would be ready to sack Tony Blair, if only they could be sure of
the replacement. I doubt if as many as 30 per cent of the electorate has decided
(a) that it will vote at the next election and (b) for whom. There is enough
volatility to give any opposition leader grounds for hope. But the volatile
voters may not all move in the same direction.

Everything is to play for; last week's elections have resolved nothing. They
have confirmed the electoral death of the British Euro-federalist cause, but
that corpse had been mouldering for years. They have also confirmed the extent
to which the voters are confused, resentful, disorientated - and open to
persuasion.

Mr Blair fought a purely negative campaign: Mr Howard, an insufficiently
positive one. It is now clear that Tony Blair intends to win re-election by
focusing on Michael Howard's negatives. So there is only one thing for Mr Howard
to do: try to make that impossible, by giving the voters his own version of who
he is.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              380 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

IT IS TIME FOR THE UK TO CHOOSE. DO YOU WANT IN OR OUT?

BYLINE: THOMAS KIELINGER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 845 words


I see crunch time arriving for Britain in Europe. Not because of UKIP,
incidentally. Their success in the European elections simply cashes in on what
has been building up for many, many years.

Come on, my friends, Europe is the unloved child of even the enlightened debate
within the Sceptred Isle. I don't believe a word of what I hear from the powers
that be about wanting to be at the heart of Europe. Well, wish for it they
might, but you know that actions speak louder than words and for seven New
Labour years I have laboured under the contradiction between this splendid
Sunday-school European rhetoric and the absence of any attempt to proselytise
for what the Government pretends to believe in. A greater credibility gap one
cannot readily conceive.

May I ask your forgiveness when I conclude that Euroscepticism must be part of
the British DNA? Let me explain where I come from. I'm not some kind of
rosy-eyed German federalist simpleton who fails to grasp the first principles of
British history and instead tries to teach the rest of the world, this blessed
plot to begin with, the great lessons of Germany's failed national curriculum
vitae. Rather, I look at your European conundrum with a great sense of kinship
almost, for I, too, have been something of a sceptic all my life about this
fudge majeur called Europe.

My point, and a somewhat realpolitical one at that, is simply this: there comes
a time when one has to make a choice, since continuing in this drift of
unrequited action on the one hand and words that only a suspension of disbelief
can make believable on the other is not going to be possible.

When Labour followed the Conservatives and promised the people a referendum on
the euro it was a tacit admission that to win an election in this country you
have to be seen in a kind of beware-of-Europe disguise, much as this might
countervail your otherwise full-flown rhetoric about the beauty of the European
settlement.

In the case of the euro this juggling act has continued since Tony Blair's first
year in office, when the Prime Minister nailed the issue to the mast of Gordon
Brown's five criteria, thus ensuring that the whole issue of the pound inside
the euro became first mute and then virtually dead - ie undead. In strictly
economic terms there never is a good moment to join, it's rather the other way
around: the longer you wait the more circumstances will militate against
joining.

Now another referendum has been declared, about a treaty that hasn't even been
decided upon. It, too, showed the PM at his most defensive. Cajoled by public
clamour, the Conservatives and dissent within his own ranks he could not but
change his mind on the merits or demerits of a referendum and yield to the
prevailing Eurosceptic mood.

My British friends remind me that, in cases of constitutionally charged issues
like giving up your currency or signing up to a treaty that has clear
constitutional implications, there is no way a political leader can avoid
offering a referendum. Fair enough. I'm not trying to criticise this state of
affairs. The advice I am being given and my own perception actually converge on
what I call scepticism about the European settlement whenever it goes beyond the
Single European Act or related matters of trade. I am trying to take the world
as it is.

That's why I see crunch time arriving for Britain, and why I think the debate
about the treaty, once it is joined, and if it ever is joined, will be one of
the most important caesuras in the political life of the nation, a defining
moment in every sense of the word. You can't sit on the fence indefinitely.

Now Europe, afflicted by Eurosclerosis and thus severely hampered in the race
for global competitiveness, could do a lot to spur the British debate along in
the direction of a Europe-friendly outcome. Who on this side of the channel
would in his right mind want to integrate further with a group of countries that
have so badly failed their own benchmarks as set in the Lisbon agenda of 2000,
as far as labour market flexibility is concerned, deregulation and growth?
Instead, what we get is a lot of grandstanding and dark hints from Paris and
Berlin that they might want to lead the way into a core Europe kind of
settlement should the British reject the treaty/constitution in their
referendum.

Don't be intimidated. This is a lot of hot air. Germans too wish to preserve the
twin threads of our foreign policy alignment: a strong relationship across the
Atlantic as well as strong ties with our European partners and friends. A
France-German core Europe concept would be the most damaging faux pas de deux
imaginable. It would strain our alliance with France to breaking point.

So British voters should weigh the referendum issue on its own merits, outside
exogenous influences. But weigh them you must, sine ira et studio. For
Euroscepticism may be a state of mind, but is does not a policy make. I look
forward to the debate.

Thomas Kielinger is the UK correspondent of the German daily Die Welt

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              381 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

EURO POLL DISASTER: BLAIR'S SUNDAY ROAST;
 VOTERS SNUB LABOUR FOR SECOND TIME

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 770 words

HIGHLIGHT: STRAINED: Tony Blair; PAPER RACE: Ballot boxes are emptied yesterday
ready for counting at Meadowbank Stadium in Edinburgh; FRANCE; President Jacques
Chirac before defeat yesterday; GERMANY; Gerhard Schroeder and wife Doris vote
yesterday; GREECE; Premier's wife Natassa Caramanlis shows support; ITALY;
Silvio Berlusconi puts vote in the ballot box in Milan


TONY Blair last night ordered his Cabinet to make "a big push to the future"
after the Prime Minister was humiliated at the polls for the second time in a
week.

Last night it was feared the Euro-sceptic UK Independence Party had grabbed 20
per cent of the vote - 18 seats - in the European elections.

And a YouGov survey predicted both Labour and the Tories had plummeted to only
22 per cent of the vote.

The UKIP result would be astonishing as the fringe party of rabid anti-Europeans
led by Robert Kilroy-Silk has only three MEPs.

And the Lib Dems faced the embarrassment of trailing in fourth.

It meant an unprecedented failure by both main parties to win even half of the
popular vote. For Mr Blair it is especially worrying after last week's local
election disaster - and half the Cabinet took to the airwaves yesterday to
defend him. Chancellor Gordon Brown said: "What I think we are seeing is a
mid-term factor plus some questioning about our policy on Iraq."

And tonight MPs will demand Mr Blair apologises over Iraq when he faces them at
a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party.

Yesterday four MPs, David Drew, Ann Cryer, Richard Burden and Kevin Brennan,
criticised Government policy on Iraq, Europe and the United States, but none
called on the Prime Minister to stand down.

Mr Brennan said the Government had "lost trust" over Iraq and should admit where
things went wrong.

Former Foreign Secretary Robin Cook added: "It's not enough simply to say we are
holding our nerve and seeing it through."

The twin drubbing for Labour in the local and European elections is sending
panic through the party.

Commons Leader Peter Hain warned Labour supporters against giving their protest
vote to the Lib Dems in the next general election.

He said it would let Michael Howard in "by the back door".

And Mr Blair's former flatmate Lord Falconer fiercely denied the PM had become
an electoral liability.

He said: "There is no doubt that we all want Tony and expect Tony to lead the
party into the next election."

The YouGov poll predicts the Tories will plunge to 22 per cent from 36 per cent
in the 2000 Euro elections.

Labour's share will be down from 26 per cent in 2000 to 22 per cent.

And it also showed the Liberal Democrats with just 14 per cent - only one point
up on their 2000 result.

That would give Labour 22 seats (down seven), the Conservatives 21 (down 15) and
leave the Lib Dems unchanged with 10 seats.

The surge of the anti-Europe UKIP has inflicted a bloody nose on all the main
parties. With disastrous timing Mr Blair this week flies to Brussels to
negotiate a new constitutional treaty for Europe.

Back at home, Labour will have to ask whether it has been too rampantly
pro-European.

Loyal backbencher Mr Drew said: "Don't underestimate how unpopular the EU is. We
must adopt a slightly more sceptical approach."

Meanwhile Mr Howard will face an internal split as he is pressed to move the
Tories to the right and support withdrawal from Europe.

Yesterday anti-Europe Tory Lord Tebbit branded the UKIP a "damned nuisance" and
an "emotional spasm".

And pro-European Tory Ken Clarke warned Mr Howard not to cave in to the
Euro-sceptic right-wingers.

He said: "For heaven's sake don't panic in the face of a protest vote in the
European elections at a time when a lot of the population are in a mood to
protest against the state of politics anyway."

If there was any consolation for Mr Blair, it came in results across Europe
where several other leaders took a hammering.

In Germany, Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's Social Democrats also slumped to a
heavy defeat.

The French Socialist Party won 30 per cent of the vote to beat President Jacques
Chirac's ruling UMP party, which got 16 per cent.

And Irish Premier Bertie Ahern was under new pressure after his troubled Fianna
Fail party faced major European election defeats on top of their local poll
meltdown. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was also preparing for defeat
last night according to exit polls, but in Spain the ruling Socialist Party were
big winners with 43.7 per cent of the vote. Exit polls in Greece last night also
showed Premier Costas Caramanlis's conservatives scoring a major win, with 42.5
per cent.

But there was embarrassment as the Euro election turnout fell to an all-time low
across the continent.

The polls attracted a 47.6 per cent turnout in the 15 "old" member states,
continuing a steady decline. But in the 10 countries which joined the EU on May
1, estimates put the turnout at just 28.7 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              382 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

EURO POLL DISASTER: BLAIR'S SUNDAY ROAST;
 VOTERS SNUB LABOUR FOR SECOND TIME

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 728 words

HIGHLIGHT: SC; STRAINED: Tony Blair; PAPER RACE: Ballot boxes are emptied
yesterday ready for counting at Meadowbank Stadium in Edinburgh


TONY Blair last night ordered his Cabinet to make "a big push to the future"
after the Prime Minister was humiliated at the polls for the second time in a
week.

Last night it was feared the Euro-sceptic UK Independence Party had grabbed 20
per cent of the national vote - 18 seats - in the Euro elections.

And a YouGov survey predicted both Labour and the Tories had plummeted to only
22 per cent of the vote in the UK overall.

The UKIP result would be astonishing as the fringe party of rabid anti-Europeans
led by Robert Kilroy-Silk has only three MEPs.

And the Lib Dems faced the embarrassment of trailing in fourth.

It meant an unprecedented failure by both main parties to win even half of the
popular vote. For Mr Blair it is especially worrying after last week's local
election disaster in England- and half the Cabinet took to the airwaves
yesterday to defend him. Chancellor Gordon Brown said: "What I think we are
seeing is a mid-term factor plus some questioning about our policy on Iraq."

And tonight MPs will demand Mr Blair apologises over Iraq when he faces them at
a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party.

Yesterday four MPs, David Drew, Ann Cryer, Richard Burden and Kevin Brennan,
criticised Government policy on Iraq, Europe and the United States, but none
called on the Prime Minister to stand down.

Mr Brennan said the Government had "lost trust" over Iraq and should admit where
things went wrong.

The twin drubbing for Labour in the local and European elections is sending
panic through the party.

Commons Leader Peter Hain warned Labour supporters against giving their protest
vote to the Lib Dems in the next general election.

He said it would let Michael Howard in "by the back door".

The YouGov poll predicts the Tories will plunge to 22 per cent from 36 per cent
in the 2000 Euro elections.

Labour's share will be down from 26 per cent in 2000 to 22 per cent.

And it also showed the Liberal Democrats with just 14 per cent - only one point
up on their 2000 result.

That would give Labour 22 seats (down seven), the Conservatives 21 (down 15) and
leave the Lib Dems unchanged with 10 seats.

In Scotland - with votes counted in 30 out of 72 areas - the SNP were suffering
a poor night with just 19.9 per cent of the vote, compared with 27 per cent in
1999.

The showing will put more pressure on leader John Swinney after a poor Scottish
parliament election last year.

The Tories were on 16.4 per cent and the Lib Dems were on 10.8 per cent as the
count reached the half way stage last night.

In terms of seats, the early results indicated little change under the complex
system of PR used in Euro elections.

Labour, with just under 30 per cent of the vote, was set to win two seats,
though it will lose one seat as a result of boundary changes which have reduced
Scotland total of MEPs from eight to seven.

The SNP and Tories were also set to retain their two MEPs and the Lib Dems their
sole Euro MEP.

The UKIP also polled strongly in Scotland, surging ahead of the Greens and the
Scottish Socialist Party but short of the votes they needed to land a seat north
of the Border.

Elsewhere in Europe, the Prime Minister could take some consolation from the
fact that several other leaders saw their ruling parties take a hammering.

In Germany, Chancellor Gerhard

Social Democrats slumped to a heavy defeat.

The French Socialist Party won 30 per cent of the vote to beat President Jacques
Chirac's ruling UMP party, which got 16 per cent.

And Irish Premier Bertie Ahern was under new pressure after his troubled Fianna
Fail party faced major European election defeats on top of their local poll
meltdown. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was also preparing for defeat
last night according to exit polls, but in Spain the ruling Socialist Party were
big winners with 43.7 per cent of the vote.

Exit polls in Greece last night also showed Premier Costas Caramanlis's
conservatives scoring a major win, with 42.5 per cent.

But there was embarrassment as the Euro election turnout fell to an all-time low
across the continent.

The polls attracted a 47.6 per cent turnout in the 15 "old" member states,
continuing a steady decline

But in the 10 countries which joined the EU on May 1, estimates put the turnout
at just 28.7 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              383 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ELECTION 2004: BLAIR FACES CRISIS AFTER EU DEFEAT

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 254 words

HIGHLIGHT: FRANCE; President Jacques Chirac before defeat yesterday; GERMANY;
Gerhard Schroeder and wife Doris vote yesterday


TONY Blair last night ordered his Cabinet to make "a big push to the future"
after the PM was humiliated at the polls for the second time in a week.

Last night it was feared the Euro-sceptic UK Independence Party had grabbed 20
per cent of the vote - 18 seats - in the European elections.

And a YouGov survey predicted both Labour and the Tories had plummeted to only
22 per cent of the vote.

The UKIP result would be astonishing as the fringe party of anti-Europeans led
by Robert Kilroy-Silk has only three MEPs.

And the Lib Dems faced the embarrassment of trailing in fourth.

It meant an unprecedented failure by both main parties to win even half of the
popular vote.

For Mr Blair it is especially worrying after last week's local election disaster
- and half the Cabinet took to the airwaves yesterday to defend him.

Chancellor Gordon Brown said: "What I think we are seeing is a mid-term factor
plus some questioning about our policy on Iraq."

The twin drubbing for Labour is sending panic through the party.

Commons Leader Peter Hain warned Labour supporters against giving their protest
vote to the Lib Dems in the next general election.

In Germany, Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's Social Democrats also slumped to a
heavy defeat.

The French Socialist Party won 30 per cent of the vote to beat President Jacques
Chirac's ruling UMP party, which got 16 per cent.

Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was also preparing for defeat last
night according to exit polls,

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              384 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

EURO POLL DISASTER: ROUTLEDGE: ON WHY TWO DEFEATS SHOULD BE A WAKE-UP CALL TO
LABOUR

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 465 words


BLACK Friday across Britain was a big setback for Tony Blair. But Bloody Sunday
in Europe is an absolute disaster.

On top of the virtual rout in the council elections must now be added
humiliation at the hands of Euro-nutters, which spells calamity for New Labour.

Blair is fighting on two fronts. Not even Hitler could do that.

The Labour leader has been fighting voters over Iraq for two years. The first
wave of electoral wrath came in the town halls. Yesterday, voters outflanked him
on the right with a direct assault on his Euro-flank.

Sometimes, we commentators get over-excited about the dangers facing the Prime
Minister. Nothing wrong with that. It's good for his circulation. Keeps the
adrenalin flowing.

But this is different. His own MPs will ask if Blair can recover enough ground
to win a third General Election.

He has only one way forward: a two-pronged campaign to win back trust in his
premiership and reassure electors that he is not selling out to Brussels.

On Iraq, Blair MUST make a substantial act of contrition. As a devout Christian,
he has to say "sorry" and admit that he did not get the war right. It may be
argued that Prime Ministers can never apologise - it makes them look weak. I
say, sooner apologetic than arrogant and out on your ear.

On Europe, Blair is in deep trouble. His concession to the Tories of a
referendum on the new European constitution has opened a political Pandora's
box. All the virulent anti- Europe feeling that was held in check by a
softly-softly policy has exploded into the open.

Electors - many of them Labour - see voting for the hard-right UK Independence
party as a way of bashing the government over immigration and the influence of
Brussels.

Of course, the Tories were also hit hard yesterday. They lost seats to UKIP. But
they tied with Labour in the Euro-poll, having stormed 12 points ahead in the
council votes. Michael Howard has been given a bloody nose. Tony Blair has a
busted hooter AND two black eyes.

When he speaks to MPs at a crisis meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party
today, the Prime Minister cannot get away with the old sermon of "going out with
our positive message to win back support".

He has to show that he can respond to the deep sense of disillusion gripping the
nation.

The message is loud and clear in two sets of elections, and there are only 10
months before the expected date of the general election. That is not long enough
for a leisurely campaign to win back hearts and minds.

Tony Blair has to get off the back foot at Westminster and put fresh fire in the
bellies of the troops.

He should worry less about the impact of his strategy on George Dubya Bush's
re-election bid and rescue Labour from its worst pre-election drubbing.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              385 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

ROUTLEDGE ON WHY TWO DEFEATS SHOULD BE A WAKE-UP CALL TO LABOUR

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 473 words


BLACK Friday across Britain was a big setback for Tony Blair. But Bloody Sunday
in Europe is an absolute disaster.

On top of the virtual rout in the council elections must now be added
humiliation at the hands of Euro-nutters and anti-war Lib-Dems, which spells
calamity for New Labour.

Blair is fighting on two fronts. Not even Hitler could do that.

The Labour leader has been at odds with voters over Iraq for two years. The
first wave of electoral wrath came in the town halls. Yesterday, voters
outflanked him on the right, assaulting his Euro-flank, and on the left with a
Lib-Dem surge.

Turnout was much higher than in 1999 - yet the Government lost ground from
London to the North East. UKIP even won a seat in Yorkshire!

Blair's own MPs will ask if he can recover enough ground to win a third General
Election.

His only way forward is to win back trust in his premiership and reassure
electors that he is not selling out to Brussels.

On Iraq, Blair MUST make a substantial act of contrition. As a devout Christian,
he has to say "sorry" and admit that he did not get the war right. It may be
argued that PMs can never apologise - it makes them look weak.

I say, sooner apologetic than arrogant and out on your ear.

On Europe, Blair is in deep trouble. His concession to the Tories of a
referendum on the new European constitution has opened a political Pandora's
box. All the anti-Europe feeling held in check by a softly-softly policy has
exploded in his face.

Electors - many Labour - see voting for the hard-right UK Independence party as
a way of bashing No10 over immigration and the influence of Brussels.

Of course, the Tories were also hit hard yesterday. They lost a big slice of
support to UKIP. But they performed well against Labour in the Euro-poll, having
stormed 12 points ahead in last week's council votes.

Michael Howard was given a bloody nose. Blair has a broken hooter AND two black
eyes.

In London - vital for a third Labour term - the Tories got the largest share of
the vote. And 90,000 Labour folk deserted to George Galloway's anti-war
coalition, Respect.

When he speaks to MPs today, the Prime Minister cannot get away with the old
sermon of "go out with our positive message to win back support".

He has to show that he can respond to the deep sense of disillusion gripping the
nation.

The message is loud and clear in two sets of elections, and there are only 10
months before the expected date of the general election. That is not long enough
for a leisurely campaign to win back hearts and minds.

Blair has to get off the back foot at Westminster and put fresh fire in the
bellies of the troops.

He should worry less about his strategy's impact on George Bush's re-election
bid and rescue Labour from its worst pre-election drubbing.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              386 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 14, 2004

VOICE IS HEARD

SECTION: SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 267 words


DO the European election results show a new extremist force has emerged in
British politics?

No. It's not new and it's not extremist.

The massive vote for the UK Independence Party reflects what Tony Blair finds
most unpalatable:

That there is no appetite for becoming more European.

People don't want the euro. And they don't want the constitution.

UKIP is merely the convenient voice with which to express growing anti European
sentiment.

The slump in the Labour vote should tell Blair he is hugely out of step with
public feelings on Europe.

The men responsible for Labour's campaigns - Ian McCartney and Douglas Alexander
- will no doubt feel his wrath.

But the Prime Minister himself must accept that he can go no further towards
European integration - unless he intends to commit political suicide.

There is little comfort to be had for the Tories, either. Voters may no longer
be in love with Blair, but they haven't fallen for anyone else.

UKIP has split the Tory vote much more than it hit Labour.

Michael Howard won't get anywhere until he can spell out clear-cut differences
between his policies and those of Blair.

No more blurred edges, no more softly-softly. Especially on Europe.

But there's the rub. If Howard says what people want to hear, he risks re
opening the old wounds in his party.

The Sun does not agree with the UKIP policy that we should withdraw from the EU.

But this much is undeniable:

Your votes have dramatically raised the stakes.

Something they could never do if we were a minor cog in a big European wheel.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              387 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 14, 2004

BLAIR MUST HEED PEOPLE AND TEAR INTO BRUSSELS

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, Political Editor

SECTION: COMMENTARY; OPINION

LENGTH: 380 words


THE worm has finally turned. It is not just Tony Blair and New Labour but the
arrogant European Union which has been "given a kicking".

And it is not just the usual suspects - frustrated Brits - who erupted in anger
against Brussels but voters across the newly expanded European Union.

In Holland, France and Germany, supposed heartlands of the EU vision, people are
fed up with being told by remote politicians and unaccountable Brussels
bureaucrats how to live their lives.

Those functionaries will dismiss the results as a temporary emotional spasm.

But they will be mad if they do not see their power and perks are under threat.

Tony Blair, left, must seize on this expression of public anger to stand up for
Britain at this week's EU summit on the wretched and dangerous EU Constitution -
even if he has to veto it.

He will be tempted to cast Tory leader Michael Howard - pictured right - who
lost seats to UKIP, as the biggest loser.

But the Prime Minister is a major casualty. Labour voters are just as alarmed by
Brussels' bullying.

It would also be a mistake for Mr Blair to blame Iraq. Both issues played a
role.

But Labour was punished for reasons closer to home.

Voters are dismayed by blatant lies over immigration.

They see improvements in public services at last, but know they are paying
through the nose in bloated taxes for every inch of progress.

They are appalled by mounting lawlessness. And they were shocked to learn that
two sisters at a barbecue in Oxfordshire died, perhaps unnecessarily, from
gunshot wounds because police who may have saved them failed to arrive in time.

They are also alarmed by the rise in mortgage rates.

It is no surprise Gordon Brown has rallied to Mr Blair's defence.

It is the Chancellor, more than any other, who has ordered how and where
taxpayers' cash is spent - and whether taxpayers get value for money. His
lieutenants were responsible for last week's elections.

Labour chief Ian McCartney risks the axe in next month's Cabinet shake-up as a
result.

Cabinet Office minister and Brownite protege Douglas Alexander is under a cloud.

Mr Brown insists he will run next year's general election war. He must ensure
that does not turn into a fiasco like this one.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              388 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 14, 2004

EUROPE SAYS NO TO EU

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh and Nic Cecil

SECTION: EURO ELECTIONS

LENGTH: 846 words


KILROY PARTY CELEBRATES SWEEPING GAINS

VOTERS last night gave Brussels a two-fingered salute and handed anti-EU rebels
a raucous new voice in the European Parliament.

The UK Independence Party made sweeping gains at Tory and Labour expense on a
blatantly aggressive vow to pull Britain out of the European Union.

All across Europe, voters were giving Brussels the cold shoulder.

Last night there were fears in the EU capital that the explosion of anti-EU
feeling could wreck the planned European Constitution altogether.

In both France and Germany the ruling parties suffered humiliating defeats.

And across Europe the election of 732 MEPs attracted an embarrassingly low 44.6
per cent turnout.

Success

The count was marred in Britain by delays of up to two hours amid chaos and
confusion over postal votes and demands for recounts.

The UKIP's success against both major parties was a shot across Tony Blair's
bows on the eve of a critical summit on the Constitution.

And it will force Tory leader Michael Howard to sharpen up his own party's
crusade against ever-growing EU power.

A YouGov poll for Sky TV showed the little-known fringe party on track to
dramatically increase its strength from three to 18 MEPs, with 20 per cent of
the popular vote.

Some early returns seemed to indicate the UKIP might not do as well as the poll
suggests. But if they do, the biggest losers look set to be the Tories with
their share of the vote slashed from 36 per cent at the 1999 European elections
to 22 per cent.

The poll also showed a six point fall in support for Labour, leaving them level
pegging with the Conservatives on 22 per cent.

It means Labour's force of MEPs would drop from 29 to 22, while the Tories would
fall from 36 to 21. The Lib Dems were put on 14 per cent.

UKIP's dramatic breakthrough is a stark warning that British voters will never
say 'yes' in a referendum on the euro or a treaty which hands sovereignty to
Europe.

And it will tie Mr Blair's hands as he squares up for a crunch vote on the
Constitution in Brussels on Friday.

One success for the UKIP last night was a foothold in Yorkshire and the Humber,
its first seat in the region.

The party gained 14.5 per cent just trailing the Lib Dems on 15.6 per cent.

The UKIP also grabbed its second seat in the South West, pushing Labour into
fourth place. The UKIP vote almost tripled. And it gained two extra seats in the
South East region, while the Conservatives and Labour lost one each.

In London, voters also deserted both Labour and the Tories. As well as the UKIP,
the far-right British National Party also saw its share of the vote increase by
2.43 per cent, winning 76,152 votes.

In the Eastern region, former BBC journalist Martin Bell announced the end of
his political career after failing to win a seat as an independent.

Ex-Labour MP George Galloway, standing for his Respect movement against the
Iraqi war, also failed to get elected.

Former TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, who joined the UKIP only last month,
claimed it has now become an established national party. Mr

Kilroy-Silk - pictured below last night - said: "This is highly significant for
the Prime Minister. He has had seven years to persuade the British people they
need to be somewhere called the heart of Europe.

"Clearly they don't want to be there with him. He'll be there by himself. He
cannot go ahead this week and sign up to the new Constitution if there is a
significant number of people voting for UKIP.

"He would be treating the electorate with contempt."

Defeats

The explosion of anti-

Brussels sentiment was echoed across Europe as leaders of 25 states encountered
wave after wave of defeats.

Reverberations were felt in Germany, where Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder was
given a bloody nose as his Social Democrats saw their share of the vote collapse
to just 21.4 per cent. It was their worst result for 60 years.

The German opposition Christian Democrats and their Bavarian sister party
triumphed with about 46.5 per cent of the vote. In neighbouring Austria,
supporters of renegade politician Hans Peter Martin - who uncovered abuses of
lavish EU perks - made gains.

And French voters seized the chance to punish President Jacques Chirac for
trying to grab their pension and welfare benefits by backing socialists.

The conservative UMP party was heading for a mere 16.5 per cent of the vote with
the Socialists at 30 per cent.

Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi also suffered a setback with his
centre-right coalition losing ground to

various centre-left groupings.

In many countries, voters simply showed their disdain by not voting. The
abstention rate in France hit a record high for a European election at 57.6 per
cent.

The overall turnout of 44.6 per cent was embarrassing - dragged down by
unexpected levels of voter apathy in the ten new member states at just 28.7 per
cent.

EU officials had earlier said anything below 50 per cent would be "unfortunate".

See The Sun Says


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              389 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 14, 2004

EUROPE SAYS NO TO EU

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, Political Editor, and Nic Cecil

SECTION: BALLOT BOX REVOLT BOOSTS KILROY'S ANTI-EURO PARTY

LENGTH: 728 words


VOTERS last night gave Brussels a two-fingered salute and handed anti-EU rebels
a raucous new voice in the European Parliament.

The UK Independence Party made sweeping gains at Tory and Labour expense on a
blatantly aggressive vow to pull Britain out of the European Union.

All across Europe, voters were giving Brussels the cold shoulder.

Last night there were fears in the EU capital that the explosion of anti-EU
feeling could wreck the planned European Constitution altogether.

In both France and Germany the ruling parties suffered humiliating defeats.

And across Europe the election of 732 MEPs attracted an embarrassingly low 44.6
per cent turnout.

Success

The count was marred in Britain by delays of up to two hours amid chaos and
confusion over postal votes and demands for recounts.

The UKIP's success against both major parties was a shot across Tony Blair's
bows on the eve of a critical summit on the Constitution.

And it will force Tory leader Michael Howard to sharpen up his own party's
crusade against ever-growing EU power.

A YouGov poll for Sky TV showed the little-known fringe party on track to
dramatically increase its strength from three to 18 MEPs, with 20 per cent of
the popular vote.

Early returns seemed to indicate the UKIP might not do as well as the poll
suggests.

But if they do, the biggest losers look set to be the Tories with their share of
the vote slashed from 36 per cent at the 1999 European elections to 22 per cent.

The poll also showed a six point fall in support for Labour, leaving them on
level pegging with the Conservatives on 22 per cent.

It means Labour's force of MEPs would drop from 29 to 22, while the Tories would
fall from 36 to 21.

UKIP's dramatic breakthrough is a stark warning that British voters will never
say 'yes' in a referendum on the euro or a treaty which hands sovereignty to
Europe.

And it will tie Mr Blair's hands as he squares up for a crunch vote on the
Constitution in Brussels on Friday.

In London, voters deserted both Labour and the Tories.

But as well as the UKIP, the far-right British National Party also saw its share
of the vote increase by 2.43 per cent, winning 76,152 votes.

But former Labour MP George Galloway, standing for his Respect movement against
the Iraqi war, failed to get elected. Former TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk,
who joined the UKIP only last month, claimed it was now an established national
party.

Mr Kilroy-Silk -pictured below last night -said: "This is highly significant for
the Prime Minister. He has had seven years to persuade the British people they
need to be somewhere called the heart of Europe.

"Clearly they don't want to be there with him. He'll be there by himself. He
cannot go ahead this week and sign up to the new Constitution if there is a
significant number of people voting for UKIP.

"He would be treating the electorate with contempt."

The explosion of anti-Brussels sentiment was echoed across Europe as leaders of
25 states encountered wave after wave of defeats.

Reverberations were felt in Germany, where Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder was
given a bloody nose as his Social Democrats saw their share of the vote collapse
to just 21.4 per cent. It was their worst result for 60 years.

The German opposition Christian Democrats and their Bavarian sister party
triumphed with about 46.5 per cent of the vote.

In neighbouring Austria, supporters of renegade politician Hans Peter Martin who
uncovered abuses of lavish EU perks -made gains. And French voters seized the
chance to punish President Jacques Chirac for trying to grab their pension and
welfare benefits by backing socialists.

The conservative UMP party was heading for a mere 16.5 per cent of the vote with
the Socialists at 30 per cent.

Protest parties made strong gains in almost every country.

In pro-EU Holland, whistleblower Paul van Buitenen -who forced the resignation
of the entire European Commission in 2001 -was rewarded with a seat as an MEP.

In many countries, voters simply showed their disdain by not voting.

The abstention rate in France hit a record high for a European election at 57.6
per cent.

The overall turnout of 44.6 per cent was embarrassing -EU officials had earlier
said anything below 50 per cent would be "unfortunate".

See The Sun Says


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              390 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 14, 2004

HEAR THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE

SECTION: SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 278 words


DO the European election results show a new extremist force has emerged in
British politics?

No. It's not new and it's not extremist.

The massive vote for the UK Independence Party reflects what Tony Blair finds
most unpalatable:

That there is no appetite for becoming more European.

People don't want the euro. And they don't want the constitution.

They just want to be British. Rulers in their own roost.

UKIP is merely the convenient voice with which to express growing anti European
sentiment.

The slump in the Labour vote should tell Blair he is hugely out of step with
public feelings on Europe.

The men responsible for running last week's campaigns -Ian McCartney and Douglas
Alexander -will no doubt feel the extent of his wrath.

Wounds But the Prime Minister himself must accept that, unless he intends to
commit political suicide, he can go no further towards European integration.

There is little comfort to be had for the Tories, either.

Voters may no longer be in love with Blair, but they haven't fallen for anyone
else.

UKIP has split the Tory vote much more than it hit Labour.

Michael Howard won't get anywhere until he can spell out clear-cut differences
between his policies and those of Blair.

No more blurred edges, no more softly softly. Especially on Europe.

But there's the rub. If Howard says what people want to hear, he risks reopening
the old wounds in his party.

The Sun does not agree with the UKIP stance on Europe. But this much is
undeniable:

Your votes have dramatically raised the stakes.

Something they could never do if we were a minor cog in a big European wheel.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              391 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 14, 2004

EURO POLL: IT'S NO TO EU

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, Political Editor, and Nic Cecil

SECTION: KILROY ANTI-EUROPE PARTY SET TO LAND FIFTH OF VOTE

LENGTH: 549 words


VOTERS last night gave Brussels a two-fingered salute and handed anti-EU rebels
a rasping new voice in the European Parliament.

The UK Independence Party made sweeping gains at Labour, Tory and Lib Dem
expense on a blatantly aggressive vow to pull Britain out of the European Union.

Its victory against both major parties was a dramatic shot across Tony Blair's
bows on the eve of a critical summit on the EU Constitution.

And it will force Tory leader Michael Howard to sharpen up his own Party's
crusade against ever-growing EU power.

A poll for Sky TV showed the little-known fringe party on track to dramatically
increase its strength from three to 18 MEPs with 20 per cent of the popular
vote.

It would put the party almost neck and neck alongside Labour and Tories and push
the Lib Dems into a humiliating fourth place.

If the YouGov poll is right, Labour's force of MEPs would drop from 29 to 22,
while the Tories would fall from 36 to 21.

UKIP's dramatic breakthrough is a stark warning that British voters will never
say 'yes' in a referendum on the euro or a treaty which hands sovereignty to
Europe.

And it will tie Mr Blair's hands as he squares up for a crunch vote on the
Constitution in Brussels on Friday.

Last night there were fears in the EU capital the explosion of anti-EU feeling
could wreck the treaty altogether.

Ex-TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, who joined the UKIP only last month, claimed
it was now an established national party. Mr Kilroy-Silk -pictured right with Mr
Blair -said: "This is highly significant for the Prime Minister.

"He has had seven years to persuade the British people they need to be somewhere
called the heart of Europe.

"Clearly they don't want to be there with him. He'll be there by himself. That
will be a tremendous snub to him. He cannot go ahead this week and sign up to
the new constitution if there is a significant number of people voting for UKIP.

"He would be treating the electorate with contempt."

The explosion of anti-Brussels sentiment was echoed across Europe as leaders of
25 states encountered wave after wave of defeats.

Reverberations were felt in Germany, where Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder was
given a bloody nose as his Social Democrats saw their share of the vote collapse
to just 23 per cent. In neighbouring Austria, supporters of renegade politician
Hans Peter Martin -who uncovered abuses of lavish EU perks -made gains.

And French voters seized the chance to punish President Jacques Chirac for
trying to grab their pension and welfare benefits by backing socialists. Protest
parties made strong gains in almost every country.

In pro-EU Holland, whistleblower Paul van Buitenen -who forced the resignation
of the entire European Commission in 2001 -was rewarded with a seat as an MEP.
In Greece, voters shifted towards the more eurosceptic Conservatives.

In many countries, voters showed their disdain by not voting. Turn-out was below
45 per cent, brought down from the previous 50 per cent by a slump in enthusiasm
for the EU among ten new member states.

The Europe-wide slump in support for Brussels is a sharp and potentially
dangerous warning to the newly-expanded EU that patience is running out with EU
waste, corruption and meddling.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              392 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

UKIP leads march of the Eurosceptics

BYLINE: Philip Webster, Political Editor and Anthony Browne, Europe
Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 896 words


THE Conservatives and Labour took a hammering last night as the UK Independence
Party made a spectacular electoral breakthrough in a Eurosceptic advance across
Europe.

Labour and Tony Blair suffered their second "kicking" in three days. But Michael
Howard was also under pressure as the once-fringe party that campaigns for
Britain's withdrawal from the European Union made substantial gains in the first
continent-wide European elections.

The advance from the UKIP hit the Conservative and Labour votes, but Charles
Kennedy's Liberal Democrats built on the share of the vote that they received in
the 1999 elections and won an extra two seats.

With three quarters of the seats declared the UKIP had 12 seats, quadrupling
their tally in the poll five years ago.

It failed to reach the heights predicted by some internet polls but the UKIP's
rise embarrassed the two main parties and was echoed across Europe, where voters
rounded on their national governments, backed Eurosceptic parties or simply
declined to vote. Candidates promising to clean up or oppose the EU advanced in
several countries, exploiting a mood of Euroscepticism and apathy that is
gathering momentum across the Continent and presenting a crisis of confidence
for its leaders.

The UKIP secured its most stunning result in the East Midlands, where it came
within 5,000 votes of topping the poll and where Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former
broadcaster and Labour MP, who has spearheaded its campaign, was one of the two
candidates to be elected.

With only Scotland and Northern Ireland to declare today, the Conservatives had
25 seats, Labour 17, the Liberal Democrats 11 -two more than last time -and the
UKIP 12.

"Throughout Britain people have sent the Government a clear message," Mr
Kilroy-Silk told his supporters after being officially elected as an MEP. "You
have not been listening, you have not taken account of us, and we will choose a
party who does."

Pat Cox, the European Parliament's President, said that 10 to 15 per cent -80 to
100 -of its MEPs would be Eurosceptics. Overall turnout across Europe was 44.2
per cent, a record low. It was a mere 28.7 per cent in the 10 new member states
who joined the EU only last month.

Ruling parties were badly defeated in Germany, France and numerous smaller
countries. In Germany the ruling Social Democrats of Gerhard Schroder, the
Chancellor, recorded their lowest vote in a national election. France's
opposition Socialists won nearly double the vote of President Chirac's governing
UMP.

In Austria an MEP thrown out of the Socialist Party for exposing the expenses
fiddles of his Brussels colleagues won 14.7 per cent of the vote as an
independent. A fledgeling Eurosceptic party in Sweden won a similiar share,
while the Dutch elected Paul van Buitenen, the whistleblower who helped destroy
the previous European Commission.

Exit polls suggested that in Belgium the far-right anti-EU party, the Vlaams
Block, appeared to have 20 per cent of the vote in the Flemish half of the
country, increasing its MEPs from two to three.

Europe's centre-right parties were projected to win between 247 and 277 seats in
the 732-seat Parliament, socialist parties between 189 and 209, and the Liberal
Democrats between 54 and 70.

With 68 of Britain's 78 seats declared the Conservatives had 25, Labour 17, Lib
Dems 11, the UKIP 12, the Greens 2 and Plaid Cymru 1. The BBC predicted that the
Tories would gain 28 per cent of the vote, Labour 23, with both the LibDems and
the UKIP on 15 per cent. That would represent an 8 point fall for the
Conservatives and 6 points for Labour.

Patricia Hewitt, the Industry Secretary, said that the results were
disappointing for Labour but even worse for the Conservatives. "We have always
known that there's a minority of the British people who are adamantly against
the European Union and would like Britain to come out," she said. "But that
poses a huge strategic problem for the Conservative Party. Do they go on
becoming more and more Euro-sceptic, pandering to UKIP to shore up that part of
their vote?"

Liam Fox, the Tory co chairman, said: "The Conservatives won these elections,
just as we won the local elections and the Greater London Assembly elections.
Labour's result is the worst result of a governing party in British electoral
history. The results clearly show that Mr Blair does not have the moral
authority to sign a European constitution."

Nigel Farage, of the UKIP, said that the main parties were out of step with the
electorate: "The message out of tonight surely must be that the entire political
class is headed in one direction but the vast majority of ordinary Brits want to
head in another."

Mr Kennedy said that the results set the scene for a three-way fight in the
general election: "In yet another set of elections the Liberal Democrats' share
of the vote is up while the other main parties are down to unprecedented
levels."

Constitution, page 2

Elections, pages 11-13

William Rees-Mogg, page 16

Tim Hames, page 16

Leading article, page 17

HOW THEY STAND

European election gains and losses at 2am

Seats:

Conservative 25 (-11)

Labour 17 (-7)

UKIP 12 (+9)

LibDems 11 (+2)

Green 2 (0)

Plaid Cymru 1 (-1)

Share (BBC projection):

Conservative 28%

Labour 23%

LibDems 15%

UKIP 15%


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              393 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Voting is over, but tough dealing lies ahead

BYLINE: Philip Webster, Political Editor and Rory Watson in Brussels

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 550 words


THE prospects of European Union leaders reaching a deal this week on a new
constitution were tightly balanced last night as Britain made progress in
retaining its national veto, but an agreement on new national voting strengths
seemed a long way off.

Divisions also appeared to be sharpening over the choice of a replacement for
Romano Prodi, the outgoing President of the European Commission.

A critical week for the EU began with a fresh attempt by the Irish presidency to
resolve differences over the constitution before a two-day summit of national
leaders in Brussels on Thursday and Friday.

With yesterday's elections to the European Parliament showing a big rise in
support for the UK Independence Party and advances for Eurosceptic parties in
other countries, a week of tough bargaining was certain. "The elections may not
boost the spirit of compromise," a senior EU official said last night.

The process begins with a meeting of foreign ministers in Luxembourg today,
before which Ireland, which holds the EU's rotating presidency, published an
amended draft of key parts of the constitution that goes some way to meeting
Britain's "red lines". It would maintain the national veto over decisions
related to taxation and the EU's sources of revenue.

Ministers made it plain last night, however, that they were still looking for
the proposals to be hardened to remove ambiguities. They want to ensure that
there can be no ending of the veto by the back door, and are insisting the draft
makes plain that decisions on tax fraud and evasion should not be taken by
majority voting.

A search for consensus over a new Commission president will begin today. An
attempt by France and Germany to lever Guy Verhofstadt, the Belgian Prime
Minister, into the job hit trouble when, as The Times reported last week, Tony
Blair let it be known that he was opposed to the candidacy.

Antonio Vitorino, the Portuguese Home Affairs Minister, re-emerged as a
potential candidate over the weekend but although Mr Blair would support him,
there are doubts in London over whether he has enough backing elsewhere.

Javier Solana, the EU foreign policy chief, could resurface this week as a
contender and Chris Patten, the former Tory Cabinet minister and now EU
Commissioner for External Relations, is said not to be out of the running.
Bertie Ahern, the Irish Prime Minister, was another whose claims were being
pushed yesterday. Irish government sources said that other leaders were asking
him to stand, and he would have Mr Blair's support.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, will tell his EU counterparts in Luxembourg
today that the latest draft constitution still fails fully to satisfy the
Government's red lines.

Officials accepted that it recognises Britain's insistence on retaining the
national veto on sensitive issues such as taxation, social security and judicial
co-operation. They insist, however, that the wording is not yet legally
watertight.

"It is an interesting paper," an official said. "At first glance it seems to go
in the right direction, but we have not got everything yet and we will have to
wait until the lawyers have had time to check it all out."

William Rees-Mogg, page 16. Tim Hames, page 16

Leading article and Letters, page 17


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              394 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Kilroy-Silk triumphs as UKIP share doubles

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 540 words


THE former television presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk was preparing last night for
his new job as an MEP for the UK Independence Party, after the party doubled its
share of the vote in results across the country.

With all votes declared in England and Wales, the UKIP had 12 seats and was
gaining between 12 and 15 per cent of the vote. In its East Midlands heartland
it came within a whisper of beating the Conservatives into second place and had
two MEPs elected.

"Throughout Britain people have sent the Government a clear message," Mr
Kilroy-Silk told his supporters after being elected. "You have not been
listening, you have not taken account of us, and we will choose a party who
does."

UKIP picked up seats across the country, including one in London, even though
the party had deliberately not targeted the capital during its campaign. It won
a similar share of the vote in the North East and a seat in Yorkshire and the
Humber. The results showed that UKIP's share of the vote was about double that
of the 7 per cent it managed in the 1999 elections. When all the final results
are in, they will have tripled their total number of MEPs. Most of the party's
gains have been made at the expense of Labour and the Conservatives.

At 11pm yesterday UKIP asked for a recount in Mr Kilroy-Silk's East Midlands
constituency because the vote seemed too close to call between Conservatives and
the UKIP for top of the list. When the result was declared in the early hours he
clapped, bowed his head and, not finding his wife on hand to hug, hugged his
UKIP colleague, Derek Clark, who won the party's other seat in the constituency.

He then had to listen as the region's Conservative MEP, Roger Helmer, who
received most votes, attacked Mr Kilroy-Silk from the podium for previous
remarks, saying that he intended to spend little time in Brussels.

When Mr Kilroy-Silk stood up to speak he was unfazed by the jeers of the Tories,
many of whom shouted "go back to the BBC". "Now you know why the British people
are fed up with the old politics," Mr Kilroy-Silk said. "They are sick and tired
of being talked to in that kind of simplistic mantra."

By the evidence of his enthusiastic, tactile campaign his success had been as
much a protest against the European Union as a protest vote against his
departure from morning television screens. There is even talk of him becoming
the leader of the party that he joined after fresco lunch with the Earl of
Bradford.

But now the next sturuggle for UKIP is to move on and capitalise on its European
election success. Today Bill Clinton's former presidential advisor will fly to
London to advise UKIP on its next goal: winning this summer's by-elections.

Dick Morris, the political analyst who helped President Clinton to power, is
regarded by all in the party as crucial to their current prominence. His
strategy for the next phase of growth -winning seats in Westminster -will be the
reverse of the party's recent campaign, David Lott, the UKIP's chairman, said.
The party has focused on advertising and celebrity endrosements, but will turn
to debating the issues.

William Rees-Mogg, page 16

Tim Hames, page 16

Leading article and Letters, page 17


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              395 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Voters give two main parties a bloody nose

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 753 words


THE main loser from the European elections is the pro-EU cause. Whatever
problems Michael Howard will now have in holding the line within the Tory party
on his European policy, the outcome underlines how far Tony Blair has failed to
persuade voters of the advantages of Britain playing a leading role in the EU.

The results complicate Mr Blair's negotiating position at this week's summit,
intended to finalise a European constitution, as well underlining the strength
of the opposition in any referendum next year.

The bare facts of the results are startling enough. On the basis of early
returns, Labour was doing appreciably worse even than its poor showing in 1999,
with by far its worst results in a national contest, while the Tories were also
losing votes.

For the first time ever, the two main parties have won little more than half the
votes cast in a nationwide election. Normally, even if the governing party is
down, the main opposition party is up. But this time, it is the Liberal
Democrats, the UK Independence Party and a medley of smaller parties.

The UK Independence Party was doing less well in London and in the North East
than suggested by some of the spectacular figures implied by recent internet
polls.

But, in line with last week's Populus poll for The Times, the UKIP was still
heading for very sizeable gains. Yet the significance of the UKIP lies less in
the votes or seats won, than in its impact on the main parties.

However, we are not about to see a splintering of the British party system. What
we have seen is the combination of a protest against the two main parties and
voters exploiting a proportional system of election, which allows a wider range
of parties to be represented, not only UKIP but also the Greens. The UKIP will
win the headlines for a few days, could even make a mark in a by-election, but
is likely, at most, to be a spoiler in next year's general election. According
to several polls, a majority of those who voted for the UKIP this time will not
do so at a general election. But the strength of anti-EU/prowithdrawal feeling
shown by the big jump in its vote, compared with 1999, will have a significant
impact on the Tories.

The more europhobic Tory MPs have already been urging Mr Howard to harden his
line from his "live and let live" approach and renegotiation of the fisheries
policy, hard though that will be to achieve.

At the same time, the now small band of Tory euro-philes, like Kenneth Clarke
and Michael Heseltine, have warned Mr Howard of the dangers of hardening his
sceptic line. Don't panic is easy to advise but harder to achieve.

The decline in the Tory share of the vote, from 36 to less than 30 per cent, has
certainly taken the gloss off Tory successes in the local elections, underlining
just how much has to be done for the party to become a credible challenger for
power at Westminster.

However, Labour should not gloat at the Tories' problems. If the first half
results from Super Thursday were pretty bad for Labour, then there was no relief
in the second half results last night. Not only was the European outcome much
much worse than Labour's 26 per cent share in 1999, but it followed their poor
showing in the local elections.

Labour cannot ignore the fact that it has been rejected by roughly three
quarters of those casting their votes. Mr Blair and his Government have a lot of
work to do before they can be sure of winning a third term. Moreover, the
Government and Mr Blair's failure to make the pro-European case has created the
opportunity for the general shift of opinion in a Eurosceptic direction, and the
rise of the UKIP.

This is not offset by the gains made by the Lib Dems, in theory the most
integrationist party. In practice, however, their campaign was mainly about
opposition to the Iraq war and said very little about European policies. Last
night's results complicate Mr Blair's task at the EU summit this week. He has
little room for manoeuvre against the hostility not only of the UKIP but also of
the Tories who have argued that the constitution is a step towards a federal
superstate. Mr Blair's promise to hold a referendum on the constitution may help
him tactically in next year's general election by robbing the Eurosceptics of a
strong campaign theme. But his strategic position is weaker. Last night's
results show that the opponents of such a treaty are both sizeable and motivated
to turn out and vote. Mr Blair is losing the big battle over Europe.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              396 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Howard is left with a tough choice over the Eurosceptics

BYLINE: Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 540 words


MICHAEL HOWARD was facing one of the biggest dilemmas of his leadership today
after his party's disappointing showing in the European elections.

The Conservatives were on course to drop by eight percentage points, which would
keep them in first place, but only after a sharp decline from the 36 per cent
result the Tories won in 1999 under William Hague. After two thirds of the seats
were declared, the Conservatives had won just 20 seats, compared with 28 in the
same areas in 1999.

As the UK Independence Party doubled its share of the vote and tripled its
representation in the European Parliament, largely at the expense of the
Conservatives, Mr Howard faced a tough decision on whether to try to accommodate
the hard-line Eurosceptic vote or to continue to freeze it out.

His party's longstanding divisions over Europe, which seemed to have been laid
to rest under Mr Howard's predecessor, Iain Duncan Smith, have been reopened
during this campaign. Many UKIP members are former Tory activists and the party
has drawn much of its support from Conservatives who believe that blocking the
rise of the European Union matters more than party loyalty.

Mr Howard has tried to position his party in what he claims is the centre
ground, favouring a "live and let live" policy of a Europe in which different
countries can integrate at different speeds.

After tonight's result, however, he will come under pressure to take a harder
line on Europe and avoid the UKIP inflicting serious damage on the party at the
next general election. Kenneth Clarke, the former Chancellor and the party's
most prominent pro-European, said as the results came in: "I think what the
three main parties should do is make the pro-European case more clearly." Anyone
who sought to govern Britain knew that it was vital to stay a member of the EU,
he said. "If we are a serious party we have got to explain the advantages of
Europe."

Lord Tebbit, the Eurosceptic former Tory chairman, said yesterday that by taking
votes from the Conservatives the UKIP was playing in the hands of Labour. "I
think voting UKIP for a lot of Conservative voters is a way of firing a shot
across the bows of the Conservative Party," he said. "The trouble is that if
they are not careful they could fire it a bit close to the waterline. UKIP is in
many ways an emotional spasm, much as I understand the views of the people. It
is also a damn nuisance."

The Liberal Democrats were brought down to earth last night after boasting on
Friday that they had come second in a national poll for the first time. In local
council elections in England and Wales the Lib Dems won 29 per cent.

Last night they were fighting with UKIP for third place in the European
elections.

Lord Rennard, the party's elections co-ordinator, said the results were looking
good for his party. "Both in London and the North East we are up 4 per cent on
last time, so it looks as if we will be up from last time round," he said. "We
are very pleased we have made a breakthrough in the North East. We think that
with the North East gain of an MEP, together with the gains in the North East at
the local elections, we will be the challengers to Labour in their former
heartlands."


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              397 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Europe rebels against its political leaders

BYLINE: Anthony Browne

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 1160 words


Anthony Browne reports on the shambles that result when the electorate rejects
its government in at least ten states

VOTERS across Europe have staged a spectacular democratic rebellion, rejecting
their national governments, rejecting the European Union or simply rejecting
Europe's first continent-wide election by simply refusing to vote.

The revolt was so serious that late last night some heads of government were
considering their position, and the European Union faced a crisis of legitimacy
just a week before it is supposed to agree its first ever constitution.

The rejection of the EU was most marked in Britain, with the rise of the UK
Independence Party.

But in many countries, including Poland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Austria and
the Czech Republic, those who promised to oppose the EU or to clean it up made
substantial gains. A handful of single- issue anti-corruption campaigners were
elected to the European Parliament, with about 80 MEPs out of the total of 732
being avowed eurosceptics.

Pat Cox, the outgoing President of the European Parliament, said that Europhiles
now had to "deliver all and stop hanging back" in making the case for the EU.

Despite efforts to persuade voters to go to the polls, the turnout was the
lowest since the first European elections in 1979. Just 44.2 per cent of voters
bothered to go to the polls, down from 49.8 per cent in 1999 according to
provisional figures last night. That was the first time that fewer than half the
electorate had bothered to vote for the European Parliament, prompting a crisis
of legitimacy in the one institution specifically set up to give a sense of
democratic accountability to the EU.

However, Mr Cox put a brave face on it, saying: "This was a democratic exercise
on a scale never seen before across the Continent, with 155 million voters
taking part."

While turnout was up in the UK, in all other major EU countries including
Germany, Italy, France and Spain fewer voters went to the polls than in any
previous European election. Most worryingly for the EU's architects, the apathy
was strongest in the East European countries that joined the EU last month,
where people were clearly unimpressed with the opportunity of voting in it for
the first time. Only 28.7 per cent bothered to vote in the ten member states,
dropping to 20 per cent in Poland and Slovakia.

Many of those that did vote seized the chance to punish their governments and
the EU. In an extraordinary display of discontent -on issues ranging from the
Iraq war to high unemployment -sitting governments across Europe suffered
stinging defeats in elections that often amounted to mid-term referendums.

In Germany, the EU's largest country, the centre-left Social Democrats of
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder suffered its worst ever results in a nationwide
vote.

With voters venting anger over the country's economic stagnation, the Social
Democrats secured only 22.9 per cent, down from 30.7 last time. The centre right
opposition Christian Democrats, who campaigned against Turkey being allowed to
join the EU, won 46.3 per cent.

"We can't gloss over the result -we have taken a clear defeat," said Klaus Uwe
Benneter, the general secretary of Schroder's party. "The result is bitter."

In France the socialist opposition won nearly double the vote of President
Chirac's ruling UMP party, scoring 16.5 per cent compared with about 30 per cent
for the Socialist Party. In Italy support fell for Silvio Berlusconi's Forza
Italia party, although it was unclear whether his centre-right coalition had
been defeated by the left-wing Olive Coalition, which is unofficially lead by
Romano Prodi, the European Commission President.

Across the Continent, from Estonia to Portugal to Slovenia to Denmark, sitting
governments felt the wrath of the electorate. The socialist government of Poland
picked up just 10 per cent of the vote, limping in at 5th place.

Only the recently elected governments of Spain and Greece managed to consolidate
their position. The prime minister of Luxembourg, Jean-Claude Juncker, was
re-elected in a general election that was also held yesterday.

In many countries, not just the UK, the most remarkable gains were made by
eurosceptics promising to fight fraud. Many have said they will form an alliance
to try and change the EU from within.

In Austria Hans-Peter Martin, an MEP thrown out of the socialist party for
exposing the expenses fiddles of his Brussels colleagues, won 14 per cent of the
vote as an independent.Dutch electors gave another whistleblower two seats in
the parliament. Paul van Buitenen, a former EU auditor whose exposure of
corruption lead to the mass resignation of the last Commission, won seven per
cent of the vote for his new Transparent Europe Party.

Europe's centre-right parties will remain the biggest grouping, with a projected
247-277 seats in the 732-member Parliament, with the socialists taking 109-209
seats and the Liberal Democrats 54-70.

HOW EUROPE VOTED

Germany: Gerhard Schroder's Social Democrats receive lowest vote (21.4 per cent)
in the party's history

France: opposition Socialist Party scores almost double the vote of Chirac's
ruling UMP

Italy: Berlusconi's centre-right coalition set to lose narrowly to centre-left
opposition parties

Spain: newly-elected Socialist Government narrowly fends off conservative
challenge

Austria: opposition Socialists squeeze past ruling conservatives

Belgium: ruling Liberal-Socialist coalition wins 13 of the country's 23 seats

Cyprus: parties opposed to the UN plan to reunite the island win four of the
country's six seats

Czech Republic: Eurosceptic opposition trounces ruling Social Democrats

Denmark: opposition Social Democrats inflict heavy defeat on ruling Liberals

Estonia: centre-right Government loses all six seats

Greece: new conservative Government easily sees off opposition challenge

Finland: opposition conservatives emerge as biggest party, but ruling centre
left coalition remains strong

Hungary: conservative opposition narrowly beats ruling socialists

Ireland: ruling Fianna Fail party facing defeat. Sinn Fein makes gains

Latvia: ruling coalition wins only one seat, as right-wing opposition parties
receive strong backing

Lithuania: fledgeling leftist party likely to defeat ruling Social Democrats

Luxembourg: ruling Christian Social Party come strong first

Malta: opposition Labour Party defeat ruling Nationalists

Poland: centre-right opposition parties crush the ruling left

Portugal: opposition Socialists score comfortable victory over centre-right
coalition Government

Slovakia: no results available

Slovenia: opposition centre-right parties beat ruling centre-left coalition

Sweden: governing Social Democrats win, but fledgeling Eurosceptic party shines

The Netherlands: ruling centre-right coalition suffers moderate setbacks


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              398 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Manchester rivals united by football

BYLINE: Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: Home news; 13

LENGTH: 584 words


NICK GRIFFIN, the British National Party leader, a young man in Muslim attire
from George Galloway's Respect Coalition and a clump of pasty-faced Greens stood
transfixed in front of a giant television as the European issue reached its
climax last night.

Gathered together in Manchester Town Hall, the cluster of political enemies were
united in their attention for the main event, watching David Beckham and the
England team lose to France in Euro 2004.

Even the most doughty election veteran had had their enthusiasm drained by the
complexities of the d'Honte system of proportional representation that would
send nine MEPs from North West England to the European Parliament for five
years.

Canvassers watched votes being piled up by sweaty council workers in large red
milk crates, each allocated a party symbol. But nobody had a clue what it meant.

"We might get two seats or one," a Liberal Democrat said, looking cluelessly at
a healthy mound of ballot papers. "It depends, I think, on how many the others
get."

A Labour Party worker sat, head in hands, poring over turnout figures from
different town halls. What did it all mean? "We should get four," he said, "or
three." And the Tories? "They should get three," he said, "or maybe four."

As the results were phoned in from town halls across the region, confusion
worsened. The UKIP had beaten Labour into fourth place in Ribble Valley; the BNP
had beaten the Conservatives into fourth in Burnley. "What does it mean?" Tory
canvassers pleaded with each other.

This was only Britain's second experiment with the list system, which forces
voters to place crosses next to parties rather than candidates. The process
favours machine politicians over personalities. Hence an exceptional individual
like James Mawdsley, the Christian campaigner jailed and tortured for
campaigning for democracy in Burma, was doomed to be an also-ran, placed ninth
on the Conservative list behind a succession of ex-MPs and local councillors. Mr
Mawdsley said that the list system was "disgusting". He said: "I don't like it.
It's not democratic. I'm not just bitching because of where my name is on the
list."

The atmosphere of the count was chilled by Mr Griffin's presence. As the far
right leader arrived, campaigners from Respect gathered outside the town hall
chanting "Smash the BNP" and "Nazis never again".

But the city centre was already filled with sunburned drunks draped in England
flags. A handful thought the large numbers of police and shouting people at the
town hall must have some connection with the football match. In scenes of utter
confusion, a group of dancing young men cheerfully grabbed anti-Nazi posters and
began singing "Rule Britannia".

Inside the hall, Respect campaigners hissed "Nazi" at canvassers wearing BNP
rosettes. Mr Griffin was surrounded by hefty young men in dark suits and black
ties, whose darting eyes watched his back.

The Lib Dems had reason to be furious. One of the parties on the North West's
election slate was called the "Liberals", slogan "Stuff the euro", and their
sizeable number of votes, presumably cast in error, looked like costing Charles
Kennedy's party an extra seat. So, the election of the wrong candidate by a
voting system nobody understands in an election marred by intimidation on the
doorsteps.

After seeing British democracy in action for the first time, Mr Mawdsely said it
might be better to pause a bit before exporting the system to Baghdad.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              399 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Results latest

SECTION: Home news; 13

LENGTH: 1368 words


EAST MIDLANDS

(Derby; Derbyshire; Leicester; Leicestershire; Lincolnshire; Northamptonshire;
Nottingham; Nottinghamshire; Rutland) Elected: *Roger Helmer (C), *Chris
Heaton-Harris (C), *Phillip Whitehead (Lab), *Bill Newton Dunn (LD), Robert
Kilroy-Silk (UKIP), Derek Clark (UKIP) C371,362(26.40%,
-13.07%)UKIP366,498(26.05%, +18.48%)Lab294,918(20.97%, -7.60%)LD181,964(12.94%,
+0.17%)BNP91,860(6.53%, +5.24%)Green76,633(5.45%, +0.07%)Respect20,009(1.42%)Ind
R2,615(0.19%)Ind H847(0.06%)C maj 4,864 (0.35%)15.78% swing from UKIP to C
Electorate3,241,566; Turnout1,406,706 (43.40%, +20.57%) 1999C maj78,906
(10.90%); Turnout723,733 (22.83%)

EASTERN

(Bedfordshire; Cambridgeshire; Essex; Hertfordshire; Luton; Norfolk;
Peterborough; Southend-on-Sea; Suffolk; Thurrock) Elected: *Geoffrey Van Orden
(C), *Robert Sturdy (C), *Christopher Beazley (C), *Richard Howitt (Lab),
*Andrew Duff (LD), *Jeffrey Titford (UKIP), Tom Wise (UKIP) C465,526(30.82%,
-11.92%)UKIP296,160(19.61%, +10.72%)Lab244,929(16.22%, -8.94%)LD211,378(14.00%,
+2.05%)Ind93,028(6.16%)Green84,068(5.57%, -0.60%)BNP65,557(4.34%,
+3.40%)EDP26,807(1.78%)Respect13,904(0.92%)Ind
Naisbitt5,137(0.34%)Prolife3,730(0.25%)C maj 169,366 (11.21%)11.32% swing from
UKIP to C Electorate4,137,374; Turnout1,510,224 (36.50%, +11.76%) 1999C
maj174,959 (17.59%); Turnout994,438 (24.74%)

LONDON

Elected: *Miss Theresa Villiers (C), *John Bowis (C), *Charles Tannock (C),
*Claude Moraes (Lab), *Ms Mary Honeyball (Lab), *Robert Evans (Lab), *Ms Sarah
Ludford (LD), *Ms Jean Lambert (Green), Gerard Batten (UKIP) C504,941(26.78%,
-5.90%)Lab466,584(24.75%, -10.26%)LD288,790(15.32%, +3.66%)UKIP232,633(12.34%,
+6.93%)Green158,986(8.43%, +0.76%)Respect91,175(4.84%)BNP76,152(4.04%,
+2.47%)CPA45,038(2.39%)EDP15,945(0.85%)PPBG5,205(0.28%)C maj 38,357 (2.03%)2.18%
swing from C to Lab Electorate5,054,957; Turnout1,885,449 (37.30%, +14.20%)
1999Lab maj26,477 (2.32%); Turnout1,141,225 (23.10%)

NORTH EAST

(County Durham; Darlington; Hartlepool; Middlesbrough; Northumberland; Redcar &
Cleveland; Stockton-on-Tees; Tyne & Wear) Elected: *Martin Callanan (C),
*Stephen Hughes (Lab), Fiona Hall (LD) Lab266,057(34.09%,
-8.06%)C144,969(18.57%, -8.79%)LD138,791(17.78%, +4.28%)UKIP94,887(12.16%,
+3.33%)BNP50,249(6.44%, +5.53%)Ind39,658(5.08%)Green37,247(4.77%,
+0.06%)Respect8,633(1.11%)Lab maj 121,088 (15.51%)0.37% swing from Lab to C
Electorate1,911,562; Turnout780,491 (40.83%, +21.09%) 1999Lab maj57,000
(14.78%); Turnout385,741 (19.74%)

NORTH WEST

(Blackburn-with-Darwen; Blackpool; Cheshire; Cumbria; Greater Manchester;
Halton; Lancashire; Merseyside; Warrington) Elected: *Den Dover (C), *David
Sumberg (C), *Sir Robert Atkins (C), *Gary Titley (Lab), *Ms Arlene McCarthy
(Lab), *Terry Wynn (Lab), *Chris Davies (LD), Saj Karim (LD), John Whittaker (
UKIP) Lab576,388(27.38%, -7.08%)C509,446(24.20%, -11.19%)LD335,063(15.92%,
+4.18%)UKIP247,158(11.74%, +5.18%)BNP134,958(6.41%, +5.08%)Green117,393(5.58%,
-0.01%)Lib96,325(4.58%,
+2.35%)EDP34,110(1.62%)Respect24,636(1.17%)Countryside11,283(0.54%)Prolife10,
84(0.

48%)Ind8,318(0.40%)Lab maj 66,942 (3.18%)2.06% swing from Lab to C
Electorate5,151,964; Turnout2,105,162 (40.86%, +21.19%) 1999C maj9,516 (0.94%);
Turnout1,017,194 (19.67%)

WEST MIDLANDS

(Herefordshire; Shropshire; Staffordshire; Stoke-on-Trent; Telford & Wrekin;
Warwickshire; West Midlands Metropolitan County; Worcestershire) Elected:
*Philip Bushill-Matthews (C), *Philip Bradbourn (C), *Malcolm Harbour (C),
*Michael Cashman (Lab), *Ms Neena Gill (Lab), *Ms Liz Lynne (LD), Mike Nattrass
(UKIP) C392,937(27.34%, -10.56%)Lab336,613(23.42%, -4.58%)UKIP251,366(17.49%,
+11.65%)LD197,479(13.74%, +2.46%)BNP107,794(7.50%, +5.81%)Green73,991(5.15%,
-0.68%)Respect34,704(2.41%)Pensioners33,501(2.33%)CG8,650(0.60%)C maj 56,324
(3.92%)2.99% swing from Lab to C Electorate3,996,130; Turnout1,437,035 (35.96%,
+14.75%) 1999C maj84,048 (9.90%); Turnout848,684 (21.21%)

YORKSHIRE & THE HUMBER

(East Riding of Yorkshire; Kingston-upon-Hull; North East Lincolnshire; North
Lincolnshire; North Yorkshire; South Yorkshire; West Yorkshire; York) Elected:
*Timothy Kirkhope (C), *Edward McMillan-Scott (C), *Ms Linda McAvan (Lab),
*Richard Corbett (Lab), *Ms Diana Wallis (LD), Godfrey Bloom (UKIP)
Lab413,213(26.27%, -5.05%)C387,369(24.62%, -12.02%)LD244,607(15.55%,
+1.15%)UKIP228,666(14.54%, +7.44%)BNP126,538(8.04%, +6.85%)Green90,337(5.74%,
+0.02%)Respect29,865(1.90%)EDP24,068(1.53%)ND14,762(0.94%)AGS13,776(0.88%)Lab
maj 25,844 (1.64%)3.48% swing from Lab to C Electorate3,694,415;
Turnout1,573,201 (42.58%, +22.83%) 1999C maj39,629 (5.33%); Turnout744,067
(19.75%)

SOUTH EAST

(Bracknell Forest; Brighton & Hove; Buckinghamshire; East Sussex; Hampshire;
Isle of Wight; Kent; Medway; Milton Keynes; Oxfordshire; Portsmouth; Reading;
Slough; Southampton; Surrey; West Berkshire; West Sussex; Windsor & Maidenhead;
Wokingham) Elected: *Daniel Hannan (C), *Nirj Deva (C), *James Elles (C),
Richard Ashworth (C), *Peter Skinner (Lab), *Chris Huhne (LD), *Ms Emma
Nicholson (LD), *Ms Caroline Lucas (Green), *Nigel Farage (UKIP), Ashley Mote (
UKIP) C776,370(35.17%, -9.25%)UKIP431,111(19.53%, +9.83%)LD338,342(15.33%,
+0.02%)Lab301,398(13.65%, -5.95%)Green173,351(7.85%, +0.43%)BNP64,877(2.94%,
+2.12%)Senior42,861(1.94%)EDP29,126(1.32%)Respect13,426(0.61%)Peace12,572(0.5
%)CPA 11,733(0.53%)Prolife6,579(0.30%)Ind5,671(0.26%)C maj 345,259 (15.64%)9.54%
swing from UKIP to C Electorate6,048,349; Turnout2,207,417 (36.50%, +11.55%)
1999C maj369,785 (24.82%); Turnout1,490,069 (24.95%)

SOUTH WEST

(Bath & North East Somerset; Bournemouth; Bristol; Cornwall; Devon; Dorset;
Gloucestershire; North Somerset; Plymouth; Poole; Scilly Isles; Somerset; South
Gloucestershire; Swindon; Torbay; Wiltshire) Elected: *Neil Parish (C), *Mrs
Caroline Jackson (C), *Giles Chichester (C), *Glyn Ford (Lab), *Graham Watson
(LD), *Graham Booth (UKIP), Roger Knapman (UKIP) C457,371(31.58%,
-10.12%)UKIP326,784(22.56%, +11.91%)LD265,619(18.34%, +1.89%)Lab209,908(14.49%,
-3.58%)Green103,821(7.17%, -1.14%)BNP43,653(3.01%,
+2.08%)Countryside30,824(2.13%)Respect10,437(0.72%)C maj 130,587 (9.02%)11.02%
swing from UKIP to C Electorate3,852,708; Turnout1,448,417 (37.59%, +9.78%)
1999C maj246,283 (23.63%); Turnout1,042,387 (27.81%)

WALES

Elected: *Jonathan Evans (C), *Ms Glenys Kinnock (Lab), *Ms Eluned Morgan (Lab),
*Ms Jill Evans (PC) Lab297,810(32.45%, +0.57%)C177,771(19.37%,
-3.40%)PC159,888(17.42%, -12.15%)UKIP96,677(10.53%, +7.39%)LD96,116(10.47%,
+2.29%)Green32,761(3.57%,
+0.99%)BNP27,135(2.96%)Forward17,280(1.88%)CDP6,821(0.74%)Respect5,427(0.59%) ab
maj 120,039 (13.08%)1.99% swing from Lab to C Electorate2,218,649;
Turnout917,686 (41.36%, +13.03%) 1999Lab maj14,455 (2.31%); Turnout626,425
(28.33%)

WEST MIDLANDS

(Herefordshire; Shropshire; Staffordshire; Stoke-on-Trent; Telford & Wrekin;
Warwickshire; West Midlands Metropolitan County; Worcestershire) Elected:
*Philip Bushill-Matthews (C), *Philip Bradbourn (C), *Malcolm Harbour (C),
*Michael Cashman (Lab), *Ms Neena Gill (Lab), *Ms Liz Lynne (LD), Mike Nattrass
(UKIP) C392,937(27.34%, -10.56%)Lab336,613(23.42%, -4.58%)UKIP251,366(17.49%,
+11.65%)LD197,479(13.74%, +2.46%)BNP107,794(7.50%, +5.81%)Green73,991(5.15%,
-0.68%)Respect34,704(2.41%)Pensioners33,501(2.33%)CG8,650(0.60%)C maj 56,324
(3.92%)2.99% swing from Lab to C Electorate3,996,130; Turnout1,437,035 (35.96%,
+14.75%) 1999C maj84,048 (9.90%); Turnout848,684 (21.21%)

YORKSHIRE & THE HUMBER

(East Riding of Yorkshire; Kingston-upon-Hull; North East Lincolnshire; North
Lincolnshire; North Yorkshire; South Yorkshire; West Yorkshire; York) Elected:
*Timothy Kirkhope (C), *Edward McMillan-Scott (C), *Ms Linda McAvan (Lab),
*Richard Corbett (Lab), *Ms Diana Wallis (LD), Godfrey Bloom (UKIP)
Lab413,213(26.27%, -5.05%)C387,369(24.62%, -12.02%)LD244,607(15.55%,
+1.15%)UKIP228,666(14.54%, +7.44%)BNP126,538(8.04%, +6.85%)Green90,337(5.74%,
+0.02%)Respect29,865(1.90%)EDP24,068(1.53%)ND14,762(0.94%)AGS13,776(0.88%)Lab
maj 25,844 (1.64%)3.48% swing from Lab to C Electorate3,694,415;
Turnout1,573,201 (42.58%, +22.83%) 1999C maj39,629 (5.33%); Turnout744,067
(19.75%)


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              400 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Mouse that roared was amplified by Tory terror

BYLINE: Tim Hames

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 898 words


ELEPHANTS, contrary to popular opinion, are not really afraid of mice. They are,
however, large creatures with poor eyesight and tend to be disturbed by
unidentified noise from any quarter. Fearing danger, they overreact, even
stampede, despite this not being in their best interests. Much the same could be
said for the Conservatives and the United Kingdom Independence Party.

Although the UKIP -assisted by Robert Kilroy-Silk, Joan Collins and Geoffrey
Boycott -has fought a campaign less based on an orthodox manifesto than a faded
copy of OK!, it was always destined to do well in this election. There is no
better territory for an anti-European political force than a contest for the
European Parliament.

There was, therefore, nothing that the Tory high command could have done to
prevent a UKIP challenge. It could not stop a few rich men making large
financial donations to its opponents. It could not deter the UKIP from
soliciting the skills of Dick Morris, the Warwick the Kingmaker of American
politics, whose fingerprints -the deployment of celebrity, an eye-catching
poster campaign and the exploitation of internet polls to create a sense of
momentum -have been all over the UKIP effort.

What Conservative Central Office could have avoided was actively assisting its
enemies through incompetence. At the same stage of the 1999 European election
battle, Smith Square learnt of a UKIP surge in several regions. William Hague
was advised by party professionals to ignore it and he wisely took that counsel.

On this occasion, I understand, CCO heard the UKIP alarm bells and the same
decision was taken, albeit tentatively, to stay silent. But someone, presumably
with the support of Liam Fox, the Party Co-Chairman, decided to commission an
internal research document attacking the UKIP and then leak it to newspapers.

Michael Howard was persuaded to mention the UKIP by name thus raising its
profile, legitimising the theory of an electoral threat and obliging the media
to offer the UKIP leadership a right of reply. This was ridiculous. It suggests
an erratic and impulsive streak at the heart of Central Office which should
terrify Tory MPs as the real hustings loom. For what the Conservatives have done
is turned a mouse into a monster.

The UKIP is not poised to win 15 per cent of the overall vote at the next
general election. There is now a risk, though, that it will fare better than the
1.5 per cent share than it secured last time and at the expense of the Tories.
In turn, this might reopen Conservative divisions on Europe and direct them back
to the failed "core vote" strategies of the past.

Three additional aspects of this merit further consideration.

The first is that the Conservatives were returning to the core vote idea anyway.

If the UKIP had disbanded six months ago then the Tories would presumably have
won this European election by a huge margin over Labour, an outcome that would
have convinced the Union Jack underpants brigade that banging on about Brussels
was worth doing.

The general shift back to old terrain is the consequence of Maurice Saatchi's
appointment as Dr Fox's Co-Chairman. He has an obsession with tax cuts that
borders on the pathological. In the past six months Lord Saatchi has reduced
what the Conservatives have to say on the public services to six words: "Labour
has failed, er that's it." Such is his determination to recreate the conditions
of the 1979 election next year that I expect him to dispatch young activists to
heckle Jim Callaghan (even though he will then be 93) and to adopt Art
Garfunkel's Bright Eyes (No 1 on May 3, 1979) as the offical campaign anthem.
Some of us suspect that a huge hit from two months earlier, Tragedy by the Bee
Gees, might prove more appropriate.

The second point is that, with or without the UKIP, it will make less sense for
Tories to highlight Europe in 2005 than it did in 2001 or 1997.

Both the euro and the proposed constitution have been taken off the electoral
table by the promise of referendums. To discuss the EU at length now would be
like a character in an opera interupting the performance to read out the fire
regulations for the concert building. But the Tories will not be able to bar
themselves from doing it.

Finally, it is utterly futile to aspire to marginalise the UKIP. Anti-EU voters
are not looking for higher-volume scepticism but an exit from the organisation.

They will never be satisfied with anything else. This is not a pledge that the
Conservatives can deliver and, if they could, Michael Ancram, the Shadow Foreign
Secretary, is hardly the figure to do so credibly. Mr Ancram is, somewhat
grandly, to deliver a lecture next month entitled "Whither India?". After his
performance over the past few weeks, India might respond by organising an
address called "Whither Michael Ancram?"

What the Tories should do about the UKIP is absolutely nothing. History hints
that these sorts of movements when suddenly flushed with the success that they
enjoyed last night soon get intoxicated with it. There are personality feuds,
policy disputes and the rhetoric becomes wilder in an attempt to retain
attention.

This is what rational people at Conservative Central Office should remember. The
claim that elephants never forget is, unfortunately, like that of their fear of
mice, not entirely accurate.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
