
                               1 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 30, 2004, Tuesday

Kilroy threatens another tilt at Ukip leadership

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 306 words

THE UK Independence Party was in turmoil again last night after backers of
Robert Kilroy-Silk threatened to force a leadership contest.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's supporters yesterday said they had the necessary backing from
constituencies to call an emergency party meeting to debate the fate of Roger
Knapman, the current leader. Damian Hockney, leading organiser in the
Kilroy-Silk camp, told the secretariat that he had the backing of 51
constituency chairmen and associations to call the EGM.

The call is almost certain to be rejected and Nigel Farage, MEP, Mr Knapman's
closest ally, last night dismissed the threat as "all flannel" and
unconstitutional.

Mr Farage also claimed that the "Kilroy factor" was discouraging party donors,
causing a 70 per cent drop in income and threatening Ukip's hopes of staging a
serious national general election campaign next year.

But Mr Hockney, Ukip's leader on the Greater London Assembly, said Kilroy-Silk
supporters would take the party's administration to the High Court if it refused
to call an EGM. Last night, Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "The people backing my campaign
have employed lawyers. We have said from the start everything has to be done in
a proper constitutional manner."

Mr Kilroy-Silk, the East Midlands MEP, who now sits as an independent, is a
former television chat show host and ex-Labour MP. Last month he launched a bid
to replace Mr Knapman, despite having joined the party only earlier this year.
He claims that Mr Knapman, a former Tory MP, is offering a lacklustre leadership
at a time when - after last June's huge European election success for the party
- it could make a real electoral breakthrough.

But Mr Kilroy-Silk's bid faltered after his call for Ukip to "kill" the Tories
led to Paul Sykes, the party's largest-single donor, pulling all financial
support.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               2 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           November 28, 2004, Sunday

LIB DEMS SUPPLANT TORIES AS THE REAL OPPOSITION, IOS POLL SHOWS

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 365 words


Charles Kennedy and the Liberal Democrats now provide more effective opposition
to the Government than Michael Howard, according to a poll for The Independent
on Sunday.

The poll, which shows the Conservatives trailing Labour by 11 percentage points
- the widest margin since May 2003 - will make dismal reading for Mr Howard. It
suggests that the Tories are performing less well than in the final days of Iain
Duncan Smith, replaced by Mr Howard a year ago this month. In Mr Duncan Smith's
last month as leader, Labour enjoyed an average lead in the polls of five
points.

On taking the fight to the Government, Mr Howard has been outdone by Mr Kennedy.
Asked if "Charles Kennedy and the Liberal Democrats are a more effective
opposition than Mr Howard and the Tories", 44 per cent agree and 41 per cent
disagree.

The poll, carried out by Communicate Research on Wednesday and Thursday last
week, makes clear that Mr Howard is failing to appeal to young people and that
his attacks on Labour miss the mark. A key finding is that one- third of
Conservative voters think the party would do better if William Hague returned to
the leadership. Asked whether Mr Hague would be a "better leader of the
Conservative party" than Mr Howard, 36 per cent of Tory voters agreed. Only a
bare majority of Tory voters, 55 per cent, disagreed.

The poll finds that young people have largely written off the party's chances.
By a majority of 53 per cent, people in the 18-24 age group agree that "the
Conservatives are likely to be out of power for at least another 10 years", and
only 35 per cent disagree with this.

The widespread criticism of Labour's election programme, unveiled last week, for
trying to create a "climate of fear", is not reflected in the poll. We asked
people whether they agreed that "the anti-terrorism measures in the Queen's
Speech are mainly an attempt to frighten people into voting Labour": 39 per cent
agreed, but 48 per cent disagreed.

IoS POLL

How would you vote if there were a general election tomorrow?

Change on month

Labour 42% +7

Conservative 31% +3

Lib Dems 20% -10

Nationalist 3%

Green 2%

UKIP 1% -3

Other 1%

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               3 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                               November 28, 2004

Blair's closer to losing than you'd think...

BYLINE: WILLIAM REES-MOGG

SECTION: FB; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 1156 words



There are not many sure things in democratic elections. The General Election of
2005 has now been fixed for May 5.

We shall have to endure the longest election campaign of modern political
history.

No doubt we shall be allowed a brief pause for presents and plum pudding over
Christmas, but otherwise the 163 days from the Queen's Speech to polling day
will be a prolonged, almost a presidential, hustings.

There is a broad public consensus that the Labour Party, under Tony Blair, will
win a third victory, as Margaret Thatcher won her third victory in 1987.

Most people expect that; in a democracy what most people expect has a very good
chance of happening.

Yet the history of elections leaves the issue open. There have been 16 General
Elections since the end of the Second World War in 1945. Seven have resulted in
the defeat of the government of the day; four of them, 1945 itself, 1970,
February 1974 and 1992, have produced surprise results, going against public
expectations. On only two occasions did the party in office win a third term.

The historic record shows it is quite possible that Labour will lose office,
even if that would come as a surprise.

The recent election results have certainly been disappointing for Labour, which
seems to be on an electoral ebb tide. There have been large swings to the
Liberal Democrats in by-elections, two of which were lost. In local government
elections, in June and subsequently, the Conservatives have come first, the
Liberal Democrats second and Labour third.

In the European elections, Labour did manage to come second, but with its lowest
share of the vote since 1918. Neither in the June local government elections, in
the European elections, nor in local government byelections since June has the
Labour Party share of the vote managed to reach 30 per cent. That is very bad,
by any comparison.

By-elections, local and European elections have, however, proved unreliable as
guides to subsequent General Election results.

Opinion polls are also unreliable, particularly when there are still five months
to go before the election is held. Even exit polls taken on the day of this
month's American presidential election gave the wrong result.

Most opinion polls currently show Labour with a narrow lead over the
Conservatives, but at a similar stage before the past three elections the polls
gave Labour a lead that proved to be ten per cent higher than it actually
achieved on polling day.

The result of the 2005 General Election is, therefore, unpredictable. Part of
the uncertainty is that no one knows whether potential Labour voters will cast
their ballots. A low turnout has the potential of an election disaster for
Labour to a degree that does not exist for the other two main parties.

If we turn to the personalities and the policies, all three parties look weak in
their own ways. As is usually true of Prime Ministers, Tony Blair will be the
biggest personality of the campaign. He is no longer a popular Prime Minister,
but he is the Prime Minister. Whatever view history-may take, he has paid a high
price for his support of President Bush and the Iraq war.

It is an unpopular war, particularly on the Left, and President Bush is an
unpopular ally.

Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy have not had the same exposure to publicity
and are, so far, regarded only as competent professional leaders of opposition
parties. This need not prevent either of them gaining seats at the General
Election.

Those who remember the elections of 1970 and 1979, both of which the
Conservatives won, will also remember the criticisms many voters were making of
the Conservative leaders, Ted Heath and Margaret Thatcher.

If more Conservatives turn out to vote on polling day, as they did in those two
years, they will not need to be fans of their leaders. In the South of England,
Mr Kennedy may be seen as rather too Scottish, but he has won a following among
opponents of the Iraq war outside his own party.

In the Queen's speech, the Government included a number of security measures;
most will not be passed, let alone come into effect, before the General
Election. They are really part of Labour's election manifesto for the next
parliament.

Some commentators have thought that this is Labour's attempt to copy President
Bush's successful strategy of frightening people into voting for the party in
power. I doubt that. It is more likely to represent real Labour anxieties, both
about the possibility of an Al Qaeda terrorist attack, along the lines of
Madrid, and about the Conservatives making an election issue of security.

The polls do usually show the Conservatives in the lead on security and defence
issues. It is difficult for the Labour Party, with all its pacifist traditions
and its internal split over the Iraq conflict, to be convincing as the defence
party.

As Labour is so split on the issue of the war, it risks losing votes if Iraq and
security do become core issues in the campaign. Both Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats could gain votes, the Conservatives because they are plausible on
defence and the Lib Dems because they were opposed to the war from the
beginning.

The Conservatives could be making much more of the issue of the European
constitution, which is seen by many Conservative voters as the historic issue of
the election. As with tax, Conservative leaders have seemed far too scared of
Europe as a campaign issue.

It is as though someone had sent out a pager message: 'Do not talk about Europe
in front of the voters.

Kenneth Clarke might be upset.' This muffling of the message plays into the
hands of the UK Independence Party and is a great mistake.

For all three parties, the balance is precarious. It is Gordon Brown, rather
than Tony Blair, who thinks there is a better way. He does not want to fight the
election on Iraq, or security. He thinks the election could be fought and won on
his record as Chancellor, and on the economic successes of the Labour Government
since 1997.

Mr Brown could be right. In 2001, Labour was able to ask for re-election on the
Chancellor's record. Even six months ago it seemed a plausible option.

Now the cracks are beginning to appear in the economic record as well. At the
start of this long election campaign, the dollar is crashing, gold is heading
above $452 (Pounds 250) an ounce, oil is close to $50 (Pounds 27) a barrel, UK
public expenditure may overshoot by Pounds 11billion, economic expansion is
slowing, house prices are falling, investment is slowing, taxes may be raised,
the great New Labour boom may be coming to an end.

The voters will probably still believe in the boom when they go to the polls in
May, but 163 days is a long time in markets, as well as in politics.

Unpredictable events could decide the 2005 General Election, either on Tony
Blair's themes or on Gordon Brown's.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               4 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 28, 2004, Sunday

Dave, new hope of the desperate party

SECTION: Features; News; 15

LENGTH: 1357 words


Apres Boris - le deluge? Nobody seriously expected the tousle-haired jokester to
be the next leader of the Conservative party, even if he was the only member of
the lacklustre Tory front bench who most of the public recognised.

Immediately after sacking him, however, Michael Howard took the bold step, to
the barely suppressed anger of the "next generation" (as the party's Star Trek
fans call them), of skipping over their heads to choose a new heir apparent from
the ranks of the mere thirtysomethings.

The announcement that David Cameron, who at 38 has enjoyed a meteoric rise into
the shadow cabinet, is to join the team co-ordinating the general election
campaign has been seen as tantamount to anointment as Howard's successor.

The irony is that superficially his track record - flamboyant adultery apart -
is not that different from Boris's. Cameron admits, with self-deprecating wit,
that his CV is not only brief but "terribly corny".

Eton and Oxford are too much of an old school cliche, never mind the fact that
his constituency - Witney in Oxfordshire - was inherited from Douglas Hurd. If
only he had served in the Guards.

At least the fact that he has not yet hosted Have I Got News For You on
television is an advantage. Then there is the hair: a full head of it, but swept
back with panache - more retro 1950s than nouveau haystack.

Not that Cameron promotes himself as the next leader - although nor could he
honestly say that the thought never crossed his mind. He professes himself
irritated by the sudden wave of speculation which, for a young pretender, can
become the kiss of death.

Yet compared with David Davis, the right-wing Eurosceptic, and the solid but
stolid figures of Liam Fox and Oliver Letwin, he represents the fresh air that
has been called for by the Tory Young Turks labelled the Notting Hill Set.

Despite his privileged background Cameron insists: "The Conservative party has
got to be for everyone: old, young, black, white, straight, gay, urban, rural."
He believes, unlike some in his party, that the only way the Tories can ever
return to power is by coming back to the centre: "We're a party for everybody
and it's important we show that in the way we talk and behave."

In public Cameron subscribes to the fiction that the Tories could win the next
election, but he knows that the party's, and his, real hope can realistically be
aimed only at the one after. The unspoken assumption is that Howard would stay
on for a year and then yield to the man of

his choice.

Politics runs in the Cameron family - his grandfather was a Tory MP - but young
"Dave", as his friends call him, affects the appearance of having fallen into
it.

Although he studied PPE (politics, philosophy and economics) at Brasenose,
Oxford, and got a first, he did none of the usual university politicking. He was
neither a member of the outrageously arch Oxford University Conservative
Association nor the Oxford Union, the debating society at which prospective
parliamentarians, including William Hague, hone their skills for the dispatch
box.Instead, the only club that he belonged to was the Bullingdon, an
anachronistic upper-class dining club renowned for its expensive tastes in wine
and drunken antics in tail coats.

Since his Oxford days, Dave has come down to earth. His wife Samantha, according
to one, has been a "huge boon. She's remarkably down to earth and keeps him
rooted in the here and now".

At their Witney home they regularly entertain people from all sections of the
community in notably informal style - "Dave often does the cooking".

They have two children, a girl and a severely handicapped boy in need of 24 hour
care, and Cameron's experience of the National Health Service, he says, is of
top-level care marred by "some awful six or seven-hour waits in casualty".

Although his political CV seems preposterously brief for someone linked with
high office - he entered parliament in 2001 - his actual experience is greater
than it looks.

He started his working life "almost by accident", according to a Tory insider,
in the research department at Conservative Central Office in the latter days of
Margaret Thatcher. He was noticed as a bright spark during the John Major years
and became a protege of Guy Black, now Howard's press spokesman.

He rapidly rose to become a special adviser to Norman Lamont in the Treasury
during the dark days before and after Black Wednesday when the pound crashed out
of the European exchange-rate mechanism, an experience that he describes as a
true political "blooding".

When he left in 1994 to join Carlton Communications as head of corporate
affairs, it was a deliberate decision that career experience in the private
sector was an essential element of the Westminster package that he was now
putting together.

He was disappointed when he fought and lost Stafford in the 1997 general
election, but given that it was the year of the Tony Blair landslide when even
Michael Portillo lost his seat, it was understood and forgiven by the party.

Giving him Witney in 2001 was effectively an admission that this was someone who
the party desperately wanted in parliament.

Over the past three years his rise has been remarkable as one of the young set
that includes Rachel Whetstone (an alarming name given the back-stabbing
atmosphere of the Tory ranks), Howard's political secretary, and his friend
George Osborne, MP for Tatton, Cheshire, and Hague's former speechwriter.

This increasingly vocal set pushing for the party to skip a generation and start
building a new team with a chance of returning to government includes Ed Vaizey,
Howard's speechwriter, and Michael Gove, the self-assured Times columnist.

Chiefly recognisable for his absurdly middle-aged taste in big-framed
spectacles, Gove was tipped for the leadership in this paper last week by no
less a figure than Portillo. But given that the prospective parliamentary
candidate for Surrey Heath has yet to win a seat in Westminster, even though it
is as safe as they come, that can be taken as just another indication of how
dire the Tories' situation is.

The most remarkable thing about Cameron is that he sounds like a serious
candidate, aware of the grassroots' pet concerns as well as the wider interests
of the electorate at large.

Like most sane players in his party - although it is surprising how few there
are - he is loath to get bogged down on the divisive issue of Europe and thinks
that there is "enough clear blue water to drown in" between them and UKIP, which
he dismisses as a fringe party not worth the flattery of paying it attention.

He says the biggest mistake for a political party today is to "promise the
earth" and not deliver it, clearly only too well aware that all politicians have
suffered from the fall in trust incurred by Blair's Iraq war.

"The biggest problem in politics at the moment is disillusion, cynicism,
apathy," he recognises. In place of "wonderful phrases, grandiloquent language"
he believes that Blair's new Labour has created a climate in which the public no
longer believes in politicians' ability to deliver: "If anybody says I will
promise you a transport system for the 21st century, they are going to be taken
out and shot."

Which may seem a shame given that an up-to-date transport system is the minimum
most of us would like any government to deliver.

Cameron insists that the way to voters' hearts is via that least reliable of
buzz words: "accountability". He says, somewhat improbably: "I'm very excited
about it."

There is an appeal in his determined moderation that may be just what the party
needs. The men of the generation between him and the current leadership,
however, have yet to give up on their own ambitions.

Then there is his own generation to cope with, not least among them his friend,
the able Osborne, another slick and easy communicator.

Osborne and Cameron are regarded as the Brown and Blair of today's
Conservatives.

If so, one thing is certain: they will not dine together in an Islington
restaurant any time soon.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Profile; David Cameron; Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           November 28, 2004, Sunday

What are we MEPs good for? Only sticking together, it seems At the Heart of
Europe

BYLINE: By DANIEL HANNAN

SECTION: News; The Weather Week; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 673 words

How have we MEPs reacted to the revelation that Jacques Barrot, the EU's new
transport commissioner, had a criminal conviction in a party funding scandal?
Have we fearlessly discharged our duties as the people's tribunes? Have we
refused to countenance having a commissioner who did not declare his record? Did
we tell Commissioner Barrot to hit the road, Jacques?

Not a bit of it. The past week has witnessed some nauseating scenes, as MEPs
rushed to ingratiate themselves with the new commissioners. As soon as the
Commission President, Jose Manuel Barroso, reconfirmed his confidence in his
team, European party leaders queued to congratulate them. Forget the rhetoric
about the parliament "coming of age" and "standing up to the executive". It is
back to business as usual, with legislature and executive backing each other
against a sceptical public. I have not met a single Euro-MP who thinks that this
was the best available team. Of the 25 commissioners, six are former Communists
and four have recently lost elections - again demonstrating that the Commission
is not so much undemocratic as anti-democratic, attracting politicians who have
been expressly rejected by voters.

We have an agriculture commissioner who makes money from the CAP, a competition
commissioner who, after only two days, has already run into conflicts of
interest, and an anti-fraud commissioner who was recently involved in a fraud
case (although he was acquitted).

Why, then, are MEPs being so supine? Because, for most of them, it is a case of
"Europe, right or wrong". They know that 11 countries plan to hold referendums
on the proposed constitution, and that in several the polls are too close to
call. So they pretend that the EU is in the hands of the wise and disinterested
commissioners. Again and again, it is left to the tiny contingent of
Euro-sceptics to carry out what ought to be the primary duty of the European
Parliament, namely to hold the Commission to account. For years, only British
Tories ever asked awkward questions about the budget: most other MEPs were more
interested in expanding the EU's finances than in ensuring they were properly
spent.

It fell to a man called Nigel Farage, capo of the UK Independence Party, to
inform the chamber of Mr Barrot's conviction. The pro-EU parties had not looked
into his background because, deep down, they didn't want to find anything.

I hold no brief for the Farageistes. They are doing Blair's work for him, by
dividing the Euro-sceptic vote. But the way MEPs reacted to Farage's revelation
was horrible. One by one they rose to threaten him with legal action. The
Liberal leader, Graham Watson, likened him to the football hooligans who had
disgraced Britain in Europe. A fomer colleague of Barrot's, Jacques Toubon,
rushed up and down the aisle, apparently looking for someone to punch (Robert
Kilroy-Silk, recognising him as the minister who had tried to ban the English
language from French airwaves, told him mischievously that no one would
understand him unless he spoke English, which sent him into a choking fit). All
this because Farage was doing the job that the rest of us ought to have done.

If you think I am exaggerating, consider the Commission's other personnel change
- one that has been largely overlooked as a result of the Buttiglione and Barrot
affairs. The Latvian candidate, Ingrida Udre, was withdrawn as a candidate. Her
crime? To tell MEPs that she favoured tax competition. Her inquisitors were
scandalised, and Mrs Udre was duly replaced by a Hungarian apparatchik.

There you have it. As far as MEPs are concerned, it is all right to have
supported a totalitarian regime, to have been convicted in a corruption case or,
indeed, to be an evident dullard with no knowledge of your portfolio. What is
not all right is to support the supremacy of national parliaments. Dolts,
shysters, reds and retreads are welcome. But someone who believes that nations
should set their own taxes? That would be going too far.

Daniel Hannan is a Conservative MEP

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               6 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 27, 2004

Weekend: Being 16: THE WORLD ACCORDING TO 16-YEAR-OLDS: It's the age of consent:
at 16 you can leave home, have sex, buy a lottery ticket. But what do
16-year-olds think about the Iraq war? Do they take drugs? Who do they respect
more - mother or father? Our exclusive ICM poll gives the answers. And Decca
Aitkenhead considers what the figures mean

BYLINE: Decca Aitkenhead

SECTION: Guardian Weekend Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2721 words


Sixteen-year-olds inspire intense curiosity, high hopes and nagging fears - some
of these turn out to be justified, others not. The results of this poll are
surprising, predictable, alarming, reassuring and, overall, somehow present a
likable picture. In other words, 16-year-olds are contradictory. They do eat a
lot of chips, and do not read a great many books. But most would much rather be
happy than rich, and care surprisingly little for fame or good looks. Nelson
Mandela commands more admiration than David Beckham, but politicians and royalty
trail way behind Kate Moss and Ms Dynamite in most 16-year-olds' estimation.
Jordan enjoys the unusual distinction of being both their third most admired
personality, and third most deplored. Unsurprisingly, she owes her place in the
first category to the boys, and in the second to the girls - one of the few
instances of strong gender disagreement. Three-quarters still believe in the
concept of marriage, but only a third in God.

Progressives looking for evidence of social evolution will be encouraged that
more than three-quarters of 16-year-olds have friends of a different race; most
have gay friends; and barely any still consider certain occupations suitable
only for either men or women. Traditionalists may be reassured to learn that 43%
consider love a prerequisite for sex. However, many more than half have already
had at least one sexual partner (and 3% more than 10), indicating either a
precocious propensity for romance, or a confusion of hormones for love.

Only 2% of boys, and even fewer girls, are willing to describe themselves as
gay, and bisexuals account for 4%. An interestingly high one in 10 still do not
know their sexual persuasion - all of which makes a little surprising the fact
that more than half say they have gay friends. Either gay teenagers are
immensely popular, or homosexuality is perhaps more easily ascribed to others
than to oneself.

The 16-year-olds' accounts of their own criminal activity also invite some
scrutiny. Less than a quarter admit that they have broken the law, and of those
just 6% cite taking drugs. But elsewhere in the poll, 31% say they have taken
drugs - a discrepancy that may arise more from uncertainty about the legal
status of cannabis than from teenage duplicity. The vast majority of those
polled said they did not want to be contacted for interview by the Guardian - a
reassuring response, suggesting their answers have been broadly truthful. A
16-year-old who is perfectly happy to let their parents read their answers in
print might not be an entirely reliable witness.

They are quite draconian about punishing crime: three-quarters think
drink-drivers should automatically be imprisoned, and 5% even regard downloading
music from the internet as a jailable offence. But then some have themselves
been victims of crime; one in 10 has already been mugged and a third have been
bullied. Interestingly, teenagers consider murderers and rapists more heinous
than paedophiles. The modern preoccupation with paedophilia appears to come
later in life, the farther we travel from childhood.

A marginal majority support lowering the franchise to 16 - but if you discount
the 10% who declared themselves certain not to vote, and the 10% who didn't know
whether they would, the implication is for a considerably higher turnout rate
than that of the over-18 electorate. Of those, a handsome majority would vote
Labour.

They are, nevertheless, neither revolutionaries nor celebrity-addled fantasists,
but appear to be the loyal children of consumer capitalism, overwhelmingly
preferring to work very long hours for very high pay, rather than the converse.
Despite this, like most of the rest of us, their highest respect still goes to
modestly paid public sector workers - doctors, nurses, teachers and police
officers - rather than to actors or businessmen. (Soldiers come surprisingly
high up this list, presumably due to the current action in Iraq - although 58%
of the 16-year-olds polled oppose the war.) Like most of us, too, their
financial aspirations are unlikely to be met by reality. Only 14% regard
£15,000-£25,000 as a "good salary", perhaps unaware that this is as much as most
of them can expect to earn.

The differences between boys' and girls' answers are not entirely predictable,
though their disparities over Jordan might have been guessed: girls read more
and steal more, boys eat more chips and commit more vandalism; girls are more
opposed to the Iraq war, boys have had slightly more sexual partners. A lot more
boys than girls have looked at internet porn - although the figure is still less
than half, which seems astonishingly low. Depressingly, one of the most striking
gender gaps arises over money. The boys' mean average idea of a good salary is
nearly £6,000 higher than the girls', and girls are twice as likely to say they
do not know what a good salary might be.

But the gender variations are almost always a matter of degree. Only one single
question produced a direct disagreement: do you have to love someone before you
have sex with them? By a narrow but virtually identical majority, girls said yes
and boys said no. (The other area of conspicuous disagreement was over Prince
Harry, and the question of whether or not he was cool. Girls were decidedly more
inclined than boys to give him the benefit of the doubt.)

The subjects on which teenagers felt least sure of their opinions are broadly
the same issues that challenge adults. The largest number of "don't knows" - 35%
- came in response to a question about which party to vote for. One in five
didn't know what they thought about the war in Iraq, and the same number were
undecided about God. These areas excluded, though, on the whole the teenagers
were strikingly confident about their experiences and attitudes.

Each question, however, still managed to floor a charmingly baffled few. What
should we make of the fact that 2% didn't know if their parents had ever done
their coursework for them? Or that 1% weren't sure if they had ever been mugged?
Of those who said they had committed a crime, 6% didn't know what it was, and 2%
didn't know whether or not they had been caught. But by far the most intriguing
puzzle came on the subject of sexual partners. Asked how many they had had, 9%
said they did not know. The survey does not reveal whether nearly one in 10
16-year-olds is not sure what constitutes a sexual partner, or simply cannot
remember how many they have had.

So this is how life is for a 16-year-old today. Their fears include terrorism,
debt and obesity. Nearly a third now get their news from the internet. Among
those who would vote, given the chance, Labour is by far the most popular party
- and Tony Blair tops the list of most deplored. Like we said: 16-year-olds are
contradictory

This poll was carried out for Guardian Weekend by ICM research. In all, 510
16-year-olds were surveyed, 243 of them boys, 267 of them girls. We have
detailed the percentages for boys and girls where there is a sizable - or a
small and interesting - gender difference.

Have you ever been bullied?

Yes 32%; no 66%; don't know 2%.

Have you ever been mugged?

Yes 9%; no 90%; don't know 1%.

Have you ever committed a crime?

Yes 23%; no 75%; don't know 3%.

Which of these things best describes what the crime was?

(The question was put only to those who said they had committed a crime.)

Theft 45% (boys 41%, girls 54%).

Vandalism 37% (boys 46%, girls 21%).

Fare-dodging 26% (boys 28%, girls 23%).

Car crime 18% (boys 21%, girls 13%).

Underage drinking 4%.

Mugging 3% (boys 5%, girls 0%).

Smoking dope 3%.

Drugs (unspecified) 3%.

Something else 10%.

Don't know 6%.

Did you get caught for any of these crimes?

Yes 40%; no 58%; don't know 2%.

Which, if any, of the crimes below do you think should always be punished with
prison?

Murder 95%.

Rape 91% (boys 87%, girls 94%).

Paedophilia 85%.

Drink-driving 73%.

Mugging 68%.

Burglary 68%.

GBH 67%.

Car theft 60%.

Tax fraud 41%.

Shoplifting 33%.

Truanting 11%.

Downloading music from the internet 5%.

None of these things 1%.

Don't know 3%.

Do you think Prince Harry is very cool, quite cool, quite uncool or very uncool?

Cool 34% (boys 27%, girls 39%), subdividing into: very cool 9%, quite cool 24%.

Uncool 44% (boys 53%, girls 36%), subdividing into: quite uncool 14%, very
uncool 29%.

How many times a week do you eat chips?

Not at all 6%.

Once 20%.

Twice 23%.

T hree times 16%.

Four times 11%.

Five times 6%.

Six times 5%.

Seven times 4%.

Eight times 1%.

Nine times 2%.

10 times 0%.

11-plus times 1%.

Don't know 6%.

Have you ever had help with coursework from your teachers?

Yes 74%; no 24%; don't know 2%.

Have you ever had help with coursework from your parents?

Yes 57%; no 41%; don't know 2%.

Have your parents ever done coursework for you?

Yes 8%; no 90%; don't know 2%.

Do you think the teaching quality in your school has got better or worse over
the last five years, or has it stayed about the same?

Better 29%; stayed about the same 36%; worse 28%; don't know 7%.

Have you ever bullied someone else?

Yes 16% (boys 21%, girls 12%); no 80% (boys 74%, girls 85%); don't know 5% (6%
boys, 3% girls).

You may have heard that the government plans to introduce top-up fees for
university courses, which could cost up to £3,000 for each year of study,
repayable only after the student has left university and is earning at least
£15,000 a year. Will the cost of these fees affect your decision about whether
or not you go to university?

Yes 44%; no 37%; don't know 19%.

Do you have any friends of a different race?

Yes 77% (boys 69%, girls 84%); no 21% (boys 28%, girls 15%); don't know 2%.

Do you think there are any jobs that men should not do?

Housework/ironing/clean the loo/househusband 3% (boys 5%, girls 1%).

Midwife/gynaecology 2%.

Hairdresser/beautician 2%.

Cleaner 1%.

Work with women's clothing/cosmetics 1%.

Secretary/office work 1%.

Childminder/work with children 1%.

Others 1%.

Don't know/nothing 90%.

Do you think there are any jobs that women should not do?

Army/military/fighting 3% (boys 5%, girls 1%).

Building 3%.

Heavy manual work 2%.

Mechanic 1%.

Driving/HGV 1%.

Sportsman/footballer 1%.

Fireman 1%.

Other 2%.

Don't know/nothing 88% (boys 83%, girls 94%).

Do you read books?

Ever 85% (boys 79%, girls 89%).

All the time 12%.

Quite often 20%.

Sometimes 27%.

Rarely 27%.

Never 14% (boys 19%, girls 10%).

Don't know 1%.

In which, if any, of the following ways do you get your news?

TV 87%; newspapers 54%; radio 44%; internet 29%; don't know/none 3%.

Do you believe in the concept of marriage?

Yes 74% (boys 68%, girls 79%); no 13%; don't know 14%.

At what age, if at all, would you like to start having children?

Age 16-17 3% (boys 4%, girls 2%); age 17-18 2%; age 19-20 5%; age 21-22 11%; age
23-24 16% (boys 12%, girls 20%); age 25-26 23%; age 27-28 12%; age 29-30 8%; age
31-32 5%; age 33-34 3%; age 35-36 2% (boys 3%, girls 0%). Don't want children 6%
(boys 9%, girls 3%).

Don't know 8% (boys 12%, girls 4%).

Do you believe in God?

Yes 35%; no 45%; don't know 20%.

Which one of the following would you rather be?

Happy 56% (boys 41%, girls 69%).

Rich 31% (boys 44%, girls 19%).

Famous 9%.

Good-looking 8%.

Don't know 2%.

Which two or three of the following do you fear most?

Death of a parent 70% (boys 59%, girls 80%).

Cancer 57% (boys 45%, girls 65%).

Terrorism 45% (boys 36%, girls 53%).

HIV 35% (boys 41%, girls 33%).

Debt 12% (boys 15%, girls 9%).

Obesity 11% (boys 10%, girls 12%).

Climate change 6%.

Don't know 5%.

Who do you admire most, your mother or your father?

Mother 32% (boys 23%, girls 40%); father 14% (boys 16%, girls 11%); neither 8%
(boys 11%, girls 4%); both 42%.

Which two people listed do you admire the most?

Nelson Mandela 25% (boys 24%, girls 26%).

David Beckham 20% (boys 20%, girls 19%).

Jordan 14% (boys 21%, girls 8%).

Kelly Holmes 12%.

Cat Deeley 10%.

Kate Moss 8%.

Ms Dynamite 8%.

Amir Khan 8%.

Tony Blair 7% (boys 9%, girls 6%).

Bono 6%.

Margaret Thatcher 5% (boys 3%, girls 7%).

Sara Cox 4%.

Michael Moore 4%.

Cherie Blair 2%.

Clare Short 1%.

Prince Charles 1%.

Gordon Brown 1% (boys 3%, girls 0%).

None of them 16%.

Don't know 13%.

Which two do you deplore most?

Tony Blair 37%.

Prince Charles 17%.

Jordan 16% (boys 13%, girls 19%).

David Beckham 14% (boys 17%, girls 11%).

Cherie Blair 13%.

Margaret Thatcher 11%.

Gordon Brown 8% (boys 12%, girls 5%).

Ms Dynamite 5%.

Bono 4%.

Michael Moore 4%.

Sara Cox 4%.

Clare Short 4%.

Kate Moss 3%.

Cat Deeley 3%.

Nelson Mandela 3%.

Amir Khan 3%.

Kelly Holmes 2%.

None of them 19%.

Don't know 16%.

Which two or three of the following do you respect most?

Doctor 53%.

Soldier 48%.

Police officer 37%.

Nurse 35%.

Teacher 26%.

Priest 9%.

Actor 7%.

Businessman 7%.

Journalist 4%.

Politician 3%.

Don't know 9%.

Are you in favour of or against the war in Iraq?

In favour 23% (boys 32%, girls 14%); against 58% (boys 49%, girls 66%); don't
know 20%.

Which of the following best describes your sexual persuasion?

Heterosexual 85% (boys 80%, girls 89%).

Bisexual 4%

(boys 6%, girls 2%).

Gay/lesbian 1% (boys 2%, girls 1%).

Don't know 10% (boys 12%, girls 8%).

Do you have any friends who are bisexual, gay or lesbian?

Yes 51% (boys 43%, girls 59%); no 37% (boys 44%, girls 31%); don't know 11%.

How many sexual partners, if any, have you had?

None 36% (boys 33%, girls 39%).

One 22% (boys 16%, girls 27%).

Two 11%.

Three 5%.

Four 6%.

Five 3%.

Six 3%.

Seven 1%.

Eight 1%.

Nine 1%.

10-plus 3% (boys 5%, girls 1%).

Don't know 9% (boys 13%, girls 6%).

Do you have to love someone before you have sex with them?

Yes 43% (boys 32%, girls 54%); no 44% (boys 56%, girls 34%); don't know 13%.

Who do you think is the person in picture 1?

93% identified Tony Blair (boys 91%, girls 95%).

Who do you think is the person in picture 2?

18% identified Michael Howard (21% of boys, 15% of girls; 1% of the total
identified him as Gordon Brown, and another 1% as Ken Livingstone).

Who do you think is the person in picture 3?

15% identified Charles Kennedy (boys 16%, girls 11%; among the others, 3%
identified him as John Prescott).

At what age do you think people should be able to vote in elections?

At 16 42%; at 18 37% (at either end of the scale, 1% plumped for 14 and another
1% reckoned 22-plus was time enough).

Imagine now that the law enabled you to vote in a general election: how certain
is it you would actually go and vote?

Certain to vote 16% (boys 18%, girls 15%). Definitely wouldn't 10% (boys 11%,
girls 9%). More likely to vote than not 54%. More likely not to vote 36%. Don't
know 10%.

If there were a general election tomorrow, which party would you vote for?

Among those expressing an intention to vote, the breakdown was as follows:

Labour 47%.

Conservative 20%.

Liberal Democrat 12%.

Green 7% (boys 4%, girls 9%).

SNP 5%.

Ukip 3%.

Plaid Cymru 3%.

Respect 3%.

BNP 2%.

Thinking about your future career, how much would you say is a good annual
salary these days?

Less than £10K 1%. £10-£15K 2%. £15-£20K 5%. £20-£25K 9%. £25-£30K 13% (boys
10%, girls 16%). £30-£35K 13%. £35-£40K 10%. £40-£50K 11%. £50- £60K 8%.
£60-£70K 5%. £70-£80K 2%. £80-£90K 1%. £90-£100K 3%. £100K-plus 4%. Don't know
12%.

Would you rather work very long hours for a very high salary, or short hours for
a lower salary?

Long hours, high salary 70% (boys 72%, girls 68%); short hours, low salary 29%
(boys 12%, girls 17%); don't know 16%.

Which, if any, of the following have you done?

Got drunk 81%.

Taken drugs 30% (boys 35%, girls 25%).

Looked at porn on the internet 28% (boys 45%, girls 12%).

None of them 15%.

Don't know 1%.


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 26, 2004, Friday

Even after hunt ban, the Tories are losing the scent

BYLINE: By ANTHONY KING

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1014 words

CONSERVATIVES these days must envy Sisyphus. That poor fellow was doomed to
spend all eternity rolling an enormous boulder up a hill only to see it roll
back down again as soon as it approached the summit. Today's Tories are even
worse off. They seem unable to push their boulder within sight of the summit.

Three years ago the Conservatives suffered one of their worst-ever election
defeats, winning only 33 per cent of the popular vote. Today, despite much
heaving and groaning, they are no better off than they were then. Indeed,
according to YouGov's monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph, support for the
Tories has actually fallen slightly to 32 per cent.

The Queen's Speech and the Conservatives' ferocious parliamentary attack on it
have evidently made little difference. Labour's lead over the Tories has
narrowed from four points last month to three points now but the change is well
within the range of normal sampling errors.

Far from ascending their electoral mountain, the Conservatives have fallen back
significantly since earlier this year. Between December 2003 and April 2004, the
Conservatives never had the support of less than 39 per cent of the electorate.
Since then they have never had the support of more than 34 per cent.

As in most previous months, the beneficiaries of the Blair Government's
unpopularity combined with the Conservatives' inability to take advantage of it
are the Liberal Democrats, currently on 23 per cent, and a variety of minor
parties led by the UK Independence Party, now on five per cent.

However passionately a minority feels about the ban on foxhunting, the issue is
evidently not a vote-winner for the Tories. YouGov asked a range of questions on
the issue and the answers demonstrate that, although substantial numbers are
opposed to the Labour-backed ban, a majority still wants foxhunting with dogs
outlawed.

As the figures show, 60 per cent of voters agree with the Commons that
foxhunting should be a criminal offence from February onwards. Only slightly
more than half that proportion, 32 per cent, believe it should not. As the
figures also show, nearly one in three Conservative supporters, 31 per cent,
believes foxhunting should be criminalised. Among Liberal Democrats the figure
rises to 73 per cent and among Labour voters to 77 per cent.

A substantial majority also rejects the pro-hunt lobby's contention that the ban
constitutes an "assault on human rights" because it restricts the freedom of
those who wish to hunt and endangers the livelihoods of those who earn their
living from hunting.

Sixty-four per cent of respondents are disposed to dismiss the human rights
argument - more than twice the number, 26 per cent, who are sympathetic.

In addition, a large majority is clear that, once the new law comes into force,
it should be obeyed. As the chart shows, roughly three quarters of YouGov's
respondents, 73 per cent, believe that those who now hunt with hounds should
give up the sport in the New Year. Only one respondent in five, 18 per cent,
believes that foxhunters would be justified in defying the law.

That said, YouGov's findings reveal a widespread reluctance to punish hunting as
though it were a heinous crime akin to murder.

Although 32 per cent of voters think that those who continue to hunt after
February should be sent to prison, a far larger proportion, 52 per cent, think
they "should be fined but not sent to prison" (41 per cent) or "cautioned but
not fined or sent to prison" (11 per cent). An additional 10 per cent go further
and insist that nothing should happen: the offence should simply be ignored.

A majority is also anxious that the police should not respond to hunting in too
heavy-handed a fashion.

As the chart shows, a large proportion, 44 per cent, take the view that if
people continue to hunt with dogs "the police should immediately arrest and
charge them" but considerably more people are inclined to be less draconian.

Roughly one in five, 19 per cent, believes the police should - at least
initially - adopt a softly, softly approach and roughly one in four, 27 per
cent, believes "the police should devote their time to more serious crimes".

Only six per cent think that if people continue to hunt "the police should
simply turn a blind eye". It appears that unless there are civil disturbances on
a large scale - and possibly even then - the fall-out from the foxhunting ban
will be minimal.

YouGov asked respondents to say whether the views of Conservative or Labour
politicians more closely reflected their own views on the issue.

As the responses show, far more people identify with the Labour position on
foxhunting than with the Tories, with a substantial minority reluctant to take a
stance at all.

Foxhunting, of course, is not the only item on the Government's long list of
pastimes to be banned. If re-elected, ministers propose to ban smoking at work
and also in restaurants, cafes and pubs that prepare and serve food.

Nearly half of YouGov's respondents, 47 per cent, are "strongly" in favour of
such a ban and a further 29 per cent - making a total of 76 per cent - say they
are "on balance" in favour. Only 21 per cent oppose a ban either "on balance"
(12 per cent) or "strongly" (nine per cent).

The Conservatives may possibly be having some success in alerting people to the
"nanny state" but they are clearly having little success in mobilising
opposition to individual nannying measures.

In any case the Tories have just imposed a banning order of their own: on Boris
Johnson, the party's erstwhile shadow culture spokesman.

YouGov reminded respondents that Michael Howard had sacked Mr Johnson on the
ground that he had lied in denying that he had had a long-standing affair that
had led to an abortion and then asked: "Do you think Michael Howard was right or
wrong to sack Mr. Johnson?"

Although Mr Johnson is widely recognised and (outside Liverpool) highly popular,
a narrow majority apparently believes that the Tory leader had to let him go.
*Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               8 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 26, 2004, Friday

BASTARDS' REUNITED: MAJOR'S ENEMIES TOAST 10 YEARS OF NOTORIETY

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR From left, Sir Richard Body, Tony
Marlow, Teresa Gorman, Sir Teddy Taylor, John Wilkinson and Christopher Gill,
head of the Freedom Association Tom Pilston

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 562 words


THEY WERE a largely anonymous band of Tory MPs whose Eurosceptic plottings led
John Major to label them "The Bastards". Ten years on, yesterday they raised
their glasses to Mr Major's fit of pique when his mass sacking turned them
overnight into the UK's most famous politicians.

The Bastards - Teresa Gorman, Chris Gill, Tony Marlow, Sir Teddy Taylor, John
Wilkinson, Sir Richard Body and Richard Shepherd - were in a forgiving mood. Mrs
Gorman, sporting her familiar yellow jacket, said: "It was the greatest honour
of my whole life to be labelled a bastard."

Mrs Gorman even called her autobiography The Bastards. Since leaving the Commons
in 2001, she has been on the speaking circuit and, now 73, has been busy
promoting hormone replacement therapy. As the only woman among The Bastards, she
says her appearances on television shows such as Have I Got News for You and The
Mrs Merton Show made her a household name.

Mrs Gorman said: "We could never have guessed John Major would make us so
famous. To sack one MP was bad enough, but to sack seven. Who could have
believed it?"

She said she was happier outside politics. "I am a bit of a show-off and getting
on those programmes was like the icing on the cake, but the cake is like soggy
pudding. It was very boring in there most of the time, waiting for votes."

The term "the bastards" was coined when Mr Major was caught off guard in July
1993, after an interview with ITN's Michael Brunson. Thinking the sound had been
switched off, he was recorded as saying: "We don't want another three more of
the bastards out there." He was believed to be referring to Michael Howard,
Peter Lilley and Michael Portillo - three of the more prominent Eurosceptics -
but the phrase stuck for all those on his own benches who proved awkward.

Along with the other six surviving Bastards - the former MP, Nick Budgen, died
aged 60 in 1998 - Mrs Gorman was on board the Wellington training ship for the
anniversary lunch hosted by the Freedom Association, the right-wing campaign
group for individual freedom and responsibility.

She said the battle against European federalists was still not won. "If the
Conservatives want to win the next election, they should say we will pull out of
Europe, no messing about, no referendum." Mrs Gorman used to represent
Billericay for the Conservatives but voted UKIP at the last election. She feels
the true "bastards" were cabinet ministers, among them Kenneth Clarke, who got
rid of her.

The others who lost the whip were Mr Gill, the former MP for Ludlow, who has
left the party and is now chairman of the Freedom Association; Mr Marlow, former
MP for Northampton North; and three who are still MPs, Sir Teddy, Mr Wilkinson,
and Mr Shepherd. They were joined by Sir Richard Body, the former MP for Boston
and Skegness, who resigned the whip in protest at their punishment for voting
against a government decision to pay money to the EU. All eight had the whip
restored after six months.

Sir Richard, 77, now a publisher, smiled at the memory of the epithet that has
gone into the register of modern political quotations. "John Major put his arm
round me and said, You know, I agree with you about Europe'. I knew he was going
round the Europhiles saying the same thing to them. It made me cross so I used
to say some rather rude things about him too."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 26, 2004, Friday

LETTER: FOREIGN INVADERS

BYLINE: COLIN BURKE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 73 words


Sir: I read in the business section (25 November) that the Chinese intend to run
our rail franchises, the Americans are posed to close Jaguar's car plant in
Coventry, some Spaniards have just bought Luton Airport whilst others are
restructuring the board at Abbey National which they have acquired, and last
week it was the Chinese deal with MG Rover. And not a squeak out of the UK
Independence Party!

COLIN BURKE

Manchester

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               10 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 26, 2004, Friday

FLYING THE FLAG FOR PRIDE AND PATRIOTISM

BYLINE: TERENCE BLACKER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 869 words


Now and then, usually when St George's Day rolls around, I receive a call from
the Richard Littlejohn Show. They have the idea that they might discuss the
subject of what it means to be English in the 21st century. Should we not, for
instance, follow the example of other countries and celebrate more openly and
proudly the name day of our country's patron saint?

My role in the discussion would clearly be that of the wussy liberal. I once
wrote a column in which I suggested that it was our very lack of overt
patriotism which made one proud to be English. The best way for a true
Englishman to celebrate St George's Day was, I suggested, to ignore it
altogether.

Because this gentle, caring approach to nationalism rarely plays well in a
red-white-and-blue debate, it was probably a good thing that the debate never
took place. I rather assumed that, since there are fewer national flags to be
seen on St George's Day than when our team is playing a European qualifier
against Liechtenstein, the argument against the cruder expressions of patriotism
has been won.

But perhaps not. This time last week, a man called George Courtauld received the
first consignment of a small book which he had decided to publish for himself.
His initial print order had been for 10,000 copies, a dashingly large number
since none of the large book chains, who have a stranglehold on sales, had taken
copies. That 10,000 has already been sold and a reprint of 50,000 has been
ordered in time for the author's appearance next week on the Richard and Judy
Show.

Courtauld had had one those irritatingly simple ideas: The Pocket Book of
Patriotism. Written while its author commuted from Essex to London where he
works for a head-hunting firm, it is, according to the modest website which has
been set up to advertise it, a collection of "essential British words and deeds,
dates and phrases, songs, speeches and commandments from Stonehenge to the
present day". In its pages, we are assured, can be found "no judgement, no
padding, no fashionable distortions or whitewash, just the bare bones of our
magnificent history brought to life by soul- stirring quotations that still echo
down the ages".

Normally, British publishers like nothing better than a very simple idea which
is cheap to produce but, when approached by Courtauld, they were distinctly
sniffy. The only editor to express interest, clearly one into whose soul media
cynicism was deeply etched, suggested that it might just work if re-titled The
British Book of Soundbites. This lack of enthusiasm was reflected among the
buyers of the larger bookshops.

Something odd is going on when an industry that is as market-conscious as the
books business can misjudge things so badly. Presumably, within sophisticated
metropolitan circles, patriotism has become profoundly unfashionable. First it
was hijacked by football - in the recent past, the worst, most yobbish type of
fan supports country before club. Then the BNP came along. Finally, and most
embarrassingly of all, patriotism became associated with UKIP.

It is tempting to suggest that sales for the book come from the usual band of
huffers and puffers of the right. The Daily Mail predictably described The
Pocket Book of Patriotism as "the perfect stocking-filler for the po-faced,
self-hating liberal in your life". On Amazon, the reading habits of those who
had bought a copy tell their own story; among other titles they had recently
purchased were Christopher Booker's The Great Deception: The Secret History of
the European Union, John Humphrys' Lost for Words and, most tellingly of all, My
Autobiography by Peter Alliss.

Yet I suspect that it will not just be traditionalists and bleaters about
political correctness who buy Courtauld's book. National pride plays its part in
the sensibility of most people, but it is difficult now to express with any kind
of conviction or decency. Four English teams may have been playing European
football competitions so far this week, but when over three quarters of their
players are foreign and their managers are Spanish, Portuguese, French and
Scottish, support for them has little to do with patriotism.

Normally, war can be relied upon to bolster a sense of national identity, but
today any act of military heroism in Iraq is likely to be more a source of
embarrassment than pride, tainted as it is by doubts about its moral
justification. Large parts of America still seem to buy a Hollywood version of
the war, but there is no yearning here to read stories of how our men are
fighting like Rambo. Instead, we would prefer to think of our soldiers doing
caring, non-aggressive work, working with the local community rather than
against it.

Under those circumstances, patriotism becomes a complex business, changing shape
and colour with differing perspectives. Obviously, as a kind of national pride,
it is preferable to flags, slogans, triumphalism and butt- kicking but it may
leave a gap for many people, including a few po-faced, self-hating liberals.
Perhaps a modest little book of facts and quotations, prompted by events that
are safely in the past, is not such a terrible way of filling it.

Terblacker@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               11 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 25, 2004, Thursday

Stop hounding us, lorry driver tells Prescott

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 300 words

JOHN PRESCOTT was urged by one of his working-class constituents yesterday to
lay off hunting just because it was practised by "very few" people.

Kevin Jackson, who drives to hounds every weekend in his Lada car and works as a
lorry driver, appealed to the Deputy Prime Minister for the very reason that it
was a minority activity.

This week Mr Prescott bluntly dismissed foxhunting as a marginal issue of
interest only to a "very few" people who were obsessed by it.

Mr Jackson, 53, born, bred and still resident in Mr Prescott's Hull East
constituency, agreed that hunting was a minority affair, insisting that it was
precisely for that reason that Labour should leave it alone.

He said opinion polls ought to ask: Are you in favour, against or don't care? "I
believe that if you asked the public in that way, you'd get 95 per cent saying:
we do not really care".

Mr Jackson put himself forward as proof that hunting was not all toffs in red
coats. He got involved in hunting joining up with the Holderness Hunt in 1997.

Every Saturday he and his wife Josie, who works in a Yorkshire-pudding factory
in Hull, follow the hunt in his car. A self-professed member of the working
class, he said: "I have never been made more welcome anywhere."

The Holderness Hunt was founded in 1726 and includes Lord Bethell. "How many
lorry drivers are on first-name terms with a lord?" said Mr Jackson, whose wife
also goes with the hunt on weekdays.

Last month the couple were part of a delegation that invited Mr Prescott to join
the hunt for one day.

Mr Prescott declined the invitation to see the hunt in action even though he
admitted that he had never seen hunting first hand.

A former Labour voter, Mr Jackson said: "Next time I will probably transfer over
to the UK Independence Party."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               12 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 25, 2004, Thursday

Britain can't pick and choose which bits of law it will obey We are in the
European Union, or we are out of it. There is no third way, says Denis MacShane

BYLINE: By Denis MacShane

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1025 words

Churchill famously said he preferred "jaw-jaw to war-war". This endorsement of
the timeless virtues of diplomacy does not reflect Churchill's real contribution
to Britain's international policy. Instead, he invented the concept of "law-law"
as the means by which post-imperial Britain could assert its authority in the
world.

Churchill re-oriented British foreign policy to international law enshrined in
international treaties. He never saw a treaty he did not like. He supported the
UN Charter and the North Atlantic Treaty, even though they were negotiated by
Attlee's ministers. Churchill himself signed 162 multilateral treaties between
1951 and 1955, as well as 543 bilateral ones.

But his keenness on international treaties was nothing compared with Margaret
Thatcher's. Never has so much British sovereignty been shared with so many other
nations - for a treaty is nothing other than an agreement to accept limitation
on unilateral national behaviour - as in the 11 years of Mrs Thatcher's
premiership. She agreed to 316 multilateral treaties and 1,482 bilateral
treaties.

Tony Blair is a much more jealous guardian of British sovereignty as counted by
the treaties his administration has signed - just 153 multilateral treaties and
531 bilateral treaties. These include the two EU treaties of Amsterdam and Nice,
and the new treaty which he signed in Rome last month.

But the really big European treaties are those Britain signed up to when Tory
prime ministers signed the Treaty of Rome, and the treaty setting up the Single
European Market two decades ago. Since then, trade between Britain and France
alone has increased by 300 per cent. Last year, 45 million passengers were
carried by low-cost airlines on trips to European cities - a direct result of
the new rules Britain accepted when it signed the 1986 treaty setting up the
Single European Market.

Other treaties, such as those locking Britain into the World Trade Organisation,
which can impose trade rules on the national policy of its member states,
represent a major surrender of unilateral national rights in favour of a
supranational rule-making and adjudicating body. The first Latin term all
diplomatists learn is Pacta sunt servanda - treaties are honoured and obeyed.
Britain willingly changes its domestic legislation to be in compliance with
international law. British lawyers are making a fortune, thanks to European and
international law, because interpreting treaties and taking cases of
supranational tribunals provide new work in which the British legal profession
excels.

Yet, for the first time in British history, this principle of staying in key
international treaty organisations and abiding by its rules is under challenge.
Well financed political organisations are calling on Britain to leave the EU,
which, along with Nato and the WTO, is the most important treaty organisation to
which Britain belongs.

There are also proposals claiming that Britain can unilaterally pass national
law that would allow it to choose the bits of the EU it likes - for example, the
single market - but tell EU member states such as Ireland, Holland, Germany and
others that they cannot fish in the North Sea or Atlantic waters Britain wants
to reserve for itself. On social policy, all employees in Britain now have the
legal right to 28 days' paid holiday a year, thanks to EU rules that other
countries have to obey. Michael Howard has said a Tory government would remove
that right by passing national law to remove Britain from its treaty obligations
in this area.

"Easy, isn't it?" declared John Redwood in an e-mail circulated to UKIP members.
No, it isn't easy. What is being proposed would put Britain in breach of its
legal obligations. International law, whether contained in EU treaties or in any
other treaty, is a constraint, at times irritating, and is sometimes ignored by
nations that do not have the same respect for the rule of law as centuries of
obedience to law have dunned into every British citizen.

Yet British citizens cannot pick and choose which bits of the law they will
obey. Similarly, Britain cannot pass legislation that conflicts with
international treaties, such as the EU treaties, without being in breach of its
solemn treaty obligations. Those who call for national legislation to put
Britain in breach of EU treaties are within their rights to make their case. But
a nation cannot stay in the EU, or any other treaty organisation, on the basis
of obeying - and expecting other nations to obey - clauses it likes, but then
pass national legislation unilaterally to exempt Britain from parts of the
treaties all other treaty members abide by.

Quite rightly, business leaders demand that the EU enforces its rules and
creates a level playing field, so that British business can obtain maximum
advantage from the market of 450 million Europeans whose sovereign states have
agreed to live under the common rule book contained in the existing and latest
version of the constitutional treaties. But what is sauce for the French or
German or Italian goose is sauce for the British gander. Europe is not a one-way
street in which Britain alone has national interests that others have to bow to,
but we can ride rough-shod over everyone else.

In the new treaty, Britain has been present at the creation in shaping Europe's
rule book. If it is voted down, the existing constitution of Europe as defined
by the treaties of Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice will still stand. But
Euro-sceptics were as hostile to those treaties as they are to the new one. A
"No" vote is simply a prelude to their real objective, which is to detach or
withdraw Britain from the EU. To talk of passing national legislation to pull
out of key bits of EU law so glibly flung about by Mr Howard and Mr Redwood is
to cross the Rubicon into UKIP territory.

It is time to be honest. UKIP is. It wants out. But the argument that you can be
in the EU and pass national legislation breaking treaty obligations just does
not add up. Britain is in the EU. Or outside the EU. There is no third way.

Denis MacShane is minister for Europe and MP for Rotherham

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               13 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 25, 2004

G2: Shortcuts: Society: Not talking about my generation

BYLINE: Tim de Lisle

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 418 words


A teenager is up in his bedroom with his mates, trying to form a band. His
father is downstairs, getting on with some online banking. He tries to ignore
the noise rumbling through the ceiling but eventually he can stand no more. He
storms upstairs and says: "If you have to practise here, can you at least let me
tune that bass?"

This true story, told in Word magazine, sums up the state of the generation gap.
It has narrowed to the point of irrelevance. There's a QC I know who likes to
take off his wig and head for a gig with his 12-year-old son. He and I belong to
the latest social group to be squeezed into a label and fed to the nation's
newsdesks: Generation Jones.

It means people aged 39 to 50. Apparently we're affluent, creative, politically
aware and heavily shaped by our early viewing. We fall into three sub-categories
- Mainstream (influenced by Tiswas, exemplified by Carol Vorderman),
Conservative (Blue Peter, Hugh Grant), and Radical (Magpie and Apocalypse Now,
Bob Geldof).

The authors, media analysts at Carat, can be congratulated on some things:
spotting that we are sceptical but not cynical, pinpointing the hitherto
neglected link between Magpie and Apocalypse Now, and coming up with three
groupings, not two. Tellingly, the biggest is Mainstream. The Lib Dems will be
thrilled. New Labour will be smiling too: the third way exists. Cherie won't:
she's a Conservative, allegedly. (What does that make Tony? Ukip?)

But there are two big snags. First, the middle youth of today are a
no-generation generation. Growing up has accelerated while growing old has
slowed, so a 10-year-old and a fortysomething can have similar taste in bands,
brands and satirical cartoons.

Second, the study is superficial, defining us by telly and celebrities. The
shallow end has got bigger, but that doesn't make it the whole pool. Hugh Grant
matters to the paparazzi, but to his contemporaries, he's a light entertainer,
dependable enough when you need a Saturday-night video.

Carat has studied our DVD collections when it should have been getting inside
our heads, seeing how we differ from our parents at the same age. Are we more
open, ethical, stretched, depressed, vain, child- focused and guilt-racked, and
less religious, prejudiced, practical, settled? Why are we so engaged by Philip
Pullman, and Stalingrad, and Tate Modern, and so disillusioned with Labour?

If Generation Jones catches on, it will be because it's catchy, not because it's
illuminating.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               14 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 25, 2004, Thursday

Leadership contest on cards, says Kilroy-Silk camp

BYLINE: Jessica Berry and Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 37

LENGTH: 349 words


The campaign to make Robert Kilroy-Silk leader of the UK Independence Party
gathered pace last night with the claim that an official leadership contest
could be announced within weeks.

Mr Kilroy-Silk has spent the time since he resigned from the party's group in
the European Parliament touring about ten local branches. To begin the process
of ousting Roger Knapman as party leader, branches can call a local meeting at
which they pass a vote calling for a leadership contest.

Tony Bennett, an aide to Mr Kilroy-Silk, said that 12 UKIP branch chairmen had
passed such a motion and that dozens more were in the process of doing so. Their
target is 47: the number required by the party's constitution before an
emergency general meeting can be held.

"The talks by Robert Kilroy-Silk have crystallised in people's minds that they
have to have an effective leadership," Mr Bennett said.

Tony Stone, the UKIP party secretary, said, however, that he had not received a
single valid letter on the subject from the branch chairman.

The rules, which were changed recently to ensure stability in a party prone to
infighting, state that the letter has to be accompanied by a cheque for Pounds
100 to pay for the cost of holding an emergency national meeting to decide the
leader.

Damian Hockney, leader of the UKIP group in the London Assembly, said that this
was because they were planning to have the letters verified first by a lawyer.

Michael Harvey, a former party secretary and now chairman of the Woking branch,
said he believed that he could get the support of 50 branch chairmen by the end
of the week.

Nigel Farage, a leading UKIP MEP, said that the move would inflict huge damage
on the UKIP's general election chances: "It is the last thing we need. Even if
they succeeded in getting a general EGM, members would vote overwhelmingly
against Mr Kilroy-Silk, who has behaved appallingly."

Mr Knapman said last night that he still retained a strong majority of support.

"It's just a regular group from London trying to cause problems for the party."


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               15 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 25, 2004, Thursday

New vote after postal fiasco

SECTION: Home news; 37

LENGTH: 73 words


A council by-election is to be held in John Prescott's constituency after the
High Court ruled that the all-postal ballot in June was void.

John Considine, an Independent, challenged the ballot after losing Derringham,
Hull, by seven votes to UKIP's John Cornforth. The result was invalidated
because some papers were distributed to the wrong area. The by-election will be
held, using polling booths, in the New Year.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               16 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 23, 2004

MEPs try to oust convicted EU chief

SECTION: ED_2ND_04; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 295 words


EURO MPs last night stepped up their attempts to challenge the nomination of a
French European Commissioner who failed to disclose his conviction for
embezzlement.

Beleaguered EC president Jose Manuel Barroso struggled to draw a line under the
row that erupted after it emerged last week that Jacques Barrot had been
convicted of party funding abuses.

The new Commission spent its first day in office engaged in a fire-fighting
exercise as MEPs challenged Mr Barrot's suitability for the senior post of
Transport Commissioner.

Mr Barroso, who has already suffered the humiliation of having to withdraw his
first team of commissioners in the face of MEP opposition, is furious at Mr
Barrot for failing to tell him about his embezzlement conviction. A close ally
of French President Jacques Chirac, Mr Barrot claims that because the conviction
was quashed by a general amnesty, he no longer has a criminal record worth
mentioning. He received a suspended sentence.

Mr Barrot, 67, yesterday wrote to the head of the European Parliament
acknowledging that he had been 'the object of a judicial procedure opened in
1995 and closed on February 23, 2000, concerning all leaders of the Centre of
Social Democrats'. He said he had never been barred from holding public office.

News of the conviction was broken by UKIP MEP Nigel Farage last Thursday.

The powerful Socialist group in the European Parliament which is linked to the
British Labour Party signalled yesterday that it was willing to accept Mr
Barrot's explanation, but Liberals and Tories called for his head.

Liberal leader Graham Watson said: 'In many other EU countries, his conviction
would disqualify him from office and such an amnesty would be unthinkable.'
Comment Page 12

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BARROT: EMBEZZLEMENT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               17 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 23, 2004

HOW BLAIR'S LEGACY WILL PULL BRITAIN TO THE LEFT; LEADER

BYLINE: Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1112 words


WHEN pundits look back on 2004 to pick out the political pressure points, they
will have an unusually large number of moments to choose from. For it has been
an epic parliamentary year, albeit a dispiriting one in which trust in the
political process has declined to crisis point.

The Hutton Report whitewash; Mr Blair's oh-so-narrow victory in the Commons vote
on student fees; the Ukip factor depriving the Tories of clear victory in the
mid-year elections; the damning Butler Report that was not quite damning enough.

All of these played a role in allowing our much-diminished Prime Minister to
cling on to office.

But for its impact on the future governance of Britain, the real defining moment
must surely be Mr Blair's dramatic personal announcement at the end of the
Labour conference on the last day of September. In a series of broadcast
interviews, he let the public in on three secrets he had been keeping from them.
We shall call them his three h's;

health, home and hierarchy.

The first h won the lion's share of morning headlines. For Mr Blair lay on the
surgeon's table the very next day for a complex operation to correct his dodgy
heart beat. The second h - his purchase of a £3.6million Georgian house in one
of London's most expensive squares - has also received much coverage.

People are rightly troubled at the spectacle of a premier who needs to stay
popular in America in order to pay off a massive debt by engaging in
transatlantic commercial activities after he steps down.

But the significance of the third announcement - Mr Blair's casual assertion
about the timing of his departure from the top of the Labour hierarchy - has so
far been massively under-appreciated. For when he said he would lead Labour
through a third general election but not a fourth, Mr Blair became the first
leader in modern parliamentary history to pre-announce his own departure. In
doing so he also institutionalised instability at the top of the Government.
From the day after the next general election, assuming a Labour victory, every
ambitious Cabinet minister will be thinking about the leadership contest to come
far more than the need to be loyal to a soon-to-be departed PM.

Governing Britain will be reduced to a political beauty contest, with the three
constituent parts of Labour's electoral college acting as the judges to be
impressed. To have a chance of success, would-be candidates will need to score
points with the trade unions, constituency Labour party members and their fellow
MPs. That means letting their true Left-wing colours be shown for the first time
in many years and hyping up their socialist leanings rather than repressing
them. For the first time since Mr Blair came to power, socialism will be in the
driving seat.

So if Mr Blair is really sincere about wanting more private sector involvement
and competition in public services, he can forget it. No Cabinet minister with
leadership ambitions will support that - far too unpopular with unions and
constituency activists.

Early manifestations of this instability are already evident.

Witness the stampede of Cabinet ministers anxious to publicly dump on Prince
Charles after his private musings on the state of modern Britain were leaked.

Laying into the heir to the throne's old-fashioned views was a great way for
leadership candidates such as Charles Clarke and John Reid to raise their
profile with the Left.

It will be interesting to see who is the first Cabinet minister to openly voice
the republican sentiments that so many in the Labour Party privately hold.

With Gordon Brown shrewdly positioned just to the left of Blair, rivals know
they must outflank him further leftwards if they are to have any chance of
breaking his stranglehold on electoral college votes and thus beating him to the
keys of 10 Downing Street.

This might explain why Commons leader Peter Hain has put so much energy into
delivering a ban on fox-hunting. At one point it was even being written that he
was prepared to resign if this symbolic act of class warfare was fudged or
further delayed.

Mr Hain has already sought to carve out territory to the left of Mr Brown by
suggesting a future Labour administration should raise the top rate of income
tax for high-earners. He was slapped down at the time but is certain to return
to this territory again.

Expect, too, a massive new raft of concessions to the trade unions in industrial
relations matters to sail through Cabinet soon after the next election; no
leadership contender will want to be seen as a brake on the vested interests of
organised labour even if they put at risk Britain's hard-won economic
prosperity.

While Mr Blair might insist he plans to serve a "full" third term, I can find no
Labour MP who truly believes he will. All think that a successor will need at
least 18 months before an election to become properly established.

That puts Mr Blair's latest departure date at the end of 2007.

In fact many Labour MPs believe a defeat in the European constitution referendum
- expected in March 2006 - will probably finish him off. For what would be the
point of a weakened PM clinging on for a final, fagend 18 months?

In planning for his departure, the Prime Minister would do well to study how his
Labour predecessor Harold Wilson managed it. One day he was PM and the next he
announced he would be standing down. There was no build-up, no hints. Had he
given any, an administration already beset by difficulties would have surely
imploded under the weight of Cabinet manoevrings.

SO WHY has Blair made such a grave mistake? I believe he has come to see himself
as the British equivalent of a United States president and simply failed to
think through the consequences of his announcement.

Even American presidents notoriously become lame ducks from the mid-point of
their final term. It will be worse for Blair.

Presidents - barring criminal misconduct - cannot be removed before their term
is up but lame duck Prime Ministers can as ambitious MPs coalesce around a
successor.

In giving diary dates, Mr Blair succeeded in killing speculation that his
departure was imminent. So as an act of crisis management it worked. But as an
act of good governance it was never at the races and the evidence of its failure
is growing all the time.

The challenge for Michael Howard's Tories is to get voters to understand that,
just as Iraq has dominated Labour's second term, the battle for the succession
would dominate a third. As a result the schools and hospitals which were
supposed to be top priority will once again be well down the pecking order.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               18 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 23, 2004

Lawyers alarmed at police powers to be unveiled in Queen's speech

BYLINE: Alan Travis and Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 722 words


Sweeping new powers to allow police to take DNA samples and fingerprints from
minor offenders arrested on the street will be tucked away in a battery of law
and order bills to be unveiled in today's Queen's speech.

What is billed by senior Labour officials as a "security and opportunity"
programme for what is all but certain to end in a spring election is dominated
by law and order-related legislation. It will be largely left to Gordon Brown's
tax-and-spend decisions to address work/life balance and related issues.

But senior lawyers and civil liberty campaigners last night launched pre-emptive
attacks on the "tidying up" decision by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to
extend the power of arrest to all criminal offences. They called it "utterly
unacceptable and grossly disproportionate".

Most of the attention has already fallen instead on Mr Blunkett's proposals,
albeit not this side of a general election, to further tighten anti-terror laws.
The measure is hidden among up to nine law and order bills expected to form the
core of today's Queen's speech, 20-plus bills unveiled at the state opening at
Westminster.

Tony Blair will use the theme as a springboard for next year's election
campaign, arguing that people need to feel secure before they are willing to
vote for the politics of hope and progress.

Historically Labour likes to be identified with hope rather than fear. And such
more hopeful themes will be evident in bills which reform charity law, require
private schools and hospitals to prove they benefit the wider community, clamp
down on loan sharks and extend animal welfare.

The controversial gambling bill, introduced this month in an accelerated form,
and the bill to create a supreme court, fought over by peers for most of this
year, will be pushed towards the statute book.

A road safety bill will impose tougher penalties on drink-drivers and drivers
using mobile phones. And the paving bill to permit a referendum on the EU
constitution will be introduced, though there is no hurry to risk using it.

Mr Blunkett remains determined to dominate the law and order debate, leaving
little ground for the Tories, Ukip or BNP, even as he risks losing liberal votes
to the Lib Dems and micro-parties of the left.

His package will feature two bills, one introducing identity cards, the other a
new FBI-style serious and organised crime agency which Mr Blair wants to see on
the statute book before he calls the likely election for May 5.

A second tier of measures that give the appearance of activism but could be
jettisoned if time runs out include:

* A drugs bill introducing compulsory testing of those who are arrested;

* A new incitement to religious hatred law; and

* A "safer neighbourhoods" bill which may be designed expressly to tempt the
Liberal Democrats to vote against it. Recent Labour byelection campaigns have
made much of the "soft on crime" charge against Charles Kennedy's candidates.

Mr Blunkett will also reveal plans today for a new management of offenders and
sen tencing bill which will introduce electronic tagging of people on bail for
the first time as well as providing a legal framework for the merger of the
prison and probation services.

Two further bills - on new anti-terror powers and introducing a new crime of
corporate manslaughter - will be published in draft form for wider debate. Like
the plans to reform police structure, they will not be implemented before the
next election.

But the decision to give the police powers of arrest for all criminal offences
will introduce "policing by discretion". It will mean that individual officers
will apply a "necessity test" as to whether they can arrest someone and take
them to the station.

Mr Blunkett insists that he has no intention of "lowering the threshold" for
somebody to be arrested. An officer will still require "reasonable grounds to
suspect an offence has been committed".

"We are tidying up the Police and Criminal Evidence Act but actually I think
people will find it a benefit rather than some sort of draconian extension,"
said Mr Blunkett.

But Gareth Crossman, of civil rights group Liberty, said: "This is discretion
policing. It will be up to the individual officer rather than the law to decide
who is going to be arrested."


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               19 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 23, 2004

G2: There's nothing like a bit of class war

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 700 words


Prejudice, my dear reader, is such a nasty word. Over the weekend the Labour MP
for the Wrekin, Peter Bradley, certainly reminded me of mine. There was now a
class-war in Britain, Bradley wrote; one started by the hunting classes against
the legitimate representatives of the people. The former were "the privileged
minority which for centuries ran this country from the manor houses of rural
England" (well, you know what he means), who were trying, through fair means and
foul, to block the will of the Commons. But, said Bradley, "the old families
have come to realise that though they may still own the country, they are no
longer running it."

Though this all sounds a weeny bit Robert Mugabe-ish, its pull, even on someone
like me, is not to be dismissed. I don't myself care about fox-hunting, and I
now find the arguments of both sides so contaminated that I don't want to hear
another word about it. But when Bradley does his "old families" thing, the most
ancient of my neck-hairs prickle.

There he speaks to the ur-socialist, the member of no clubs, the man with not a
drop of blue blood, the non-inheritor, the untitled, the person to whom
"exclusive" means "excluded" - ie, most of us.

This isn't entirely about the gentry, because money and attitude are involved as
well. Bryan Ferry may have been a working-class man, but why did he marry a
socialite and send his kids to Eton and Marlborough? What were he and his wife
trying to say?

Perhaps they anticipated that young Otis would wind up hunting with princes and
take his place in Tatler's (Tatler? What the hell is that about?) Little Black
Book of eligible bachelors. Most datable women are Jemima Khan (better known by
her full title "Heiress Jemima Khan"); Isabella Calthorpe, "who has been linked
to Prince William"; Lady Alexandra Gordon Lennox; The Hon Sophia Hesketh; Lady
Alexandra Spencer-Churchill; and the Hon Tabitha Garden-Wall.

"He is Master of the South Shropshire Hunt and a veteran of the Countryside
Movement," Tatler says of Ferry Jr, and, "He's the latest public figure who
scares Tony Blair to death." He's also a toffee-nosed little git who has
inherited a vast fortune, and now wastes his time killing foxes and disrupting
parliament and . . . Down, Mugabe! This way an embolism lies.

Take the word "landowner". As in, to paraphrase a number of threatening
landowners, "We will deny the armed forces access to their firing ranges,
electricity companies access to pylons, and British Waterways access to weirs."
Did you know (because they boast about it) that the 50,000 members of the
Country Landowners Association own 60% of the rural land in England and Wales?
Sixty bloody per cent. The CLA, as it happens, are rather a moderate lot, but no
wonder that during elections all the fields are full of massive Tory (or,
latterly, Ukip) posters, and all the MPs are Lib Dem or Labour.

And they hate us plebs. They don't want us walking on their lands and cluttering
up their lanes, because they think (as they have always thought) that we're a
load of uncouth city yobs. During the Labour conference some of these warriors
dumped animal carcasses in the town centre, in a display of bad manners that
could only be rivalled were townies to begin a "leave all gates open" campaign
in the countryside. Well bring it on! A bas les aristocrates! To the guillotine
with the Trustafarians, the sloanes, the sychophantic society journalists
wheedling for invitations to Sycophantic Hall and - worst of all - the
20-year-olds with Ferraris and flats in Fulham!

Now, that little lot took no effort at all. It may not be what I think, but it's
certainly what I feel. And, remarkably, it's a prejudice that - so far - major
figures in the Labour party haven't exploited at all. Gordon Brown, for one,
could easily have gone postal on the question of the absurd sense of entitlement
that the upper classes seem to have. He hasn't done it.

But we could, you know. I see from Monday's Telegraph that Prince (I just want
to serve) Harry has been working on a "polo ranch" in Argentina owned by the
parents of one of the Commons hunting protesters. Charles, hombre, will you
never learn?


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               20 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 23, 2004

EU transport chief clings on to his job

BYLINE: David Gow in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 476 words


Jacques Barrot, Europe's new transport chief, last night clung to office despite
a continuing row over his failure to disclose his amnestied conviction in
connection with a French political party funding scandal.

Mr Barrot, a commission vice-president, won lukewarm backing from Jose Manuel
Barroso, the president, who was forced to spend a month reshuffling his original
24-man team before winning approval last week from the European parliament.

Mr Barroso made plain that he "would have preferred" the French politician to
have made public his sentence and amnesty before he was appointed to the
regional policy post in the previous commission on April 1.

He only found out when Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence party MEPs,
attacked Mr Barrot in a general condemnation of the new Barroso team minutes
before the parliament gave it a two-thirds majority approval last Thursday.

Mr Barroso's authority and credibility was weakened after he was forced to
withdraw his initial team when MEPs clamoured for the removal of the anti-gay
campaigner Rocco Buttiglione as justice commissioner. This time he effectively
put the ball back in the parliament's court, daring it to recreate the
institutional paralysis it had caused over Mr Buttiglione.

There were clear signs last night that the leading political groups in the
parliament preferred to let Mr Barrot off the hook, though senior political
sources indicated that he was not yet out of the woods and could fall if he
failed to win the trust of MEPs during a proposed appearance before the
parliament. His treatment was contrasted with the enforced resignation of
Ingrida Udre, Latvia's original choice as commissioner, over unproven political
funding allegations.

While British Tories called for Mr Barrot's resignation or sacking, the umbrella
centre-right European People's party to which they belong made plain that the
matter was closed. "To suggest that he tried to hide something is absurd,"
officials said, after examining Mr Barrot's letter of explanation.

In it, Mr Barrot explained at length how the case brought against all senior
members of the CDS social democrat party in France, of which he was secretary
general, was closed in 2000, five years after it opened, with an amnesty.

Under French law the court not only wiped the record clean but erased the actual
record of the judgment, banning anyone from publicly mentioning it "on pain of
legal prosecution and a fine at the behest of the public prosecutor," according
to Mr Barrot.

"This is why I did not think it necessary to mention a sentence covered by an
amnesty in a case which, at the time, had been widely publicised," he wrote,
adding that no doubts had been expressed about his personal honesty or pursuance
of personal gain and he had a clear police record.

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               21 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 23, 2004, Tuesday

Young want to reduce role of EU

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news; 14

LENGTH: 627 words


Tory hawks will urge Michael Howard to harden party policy on Europe after poll
findings, writes Philip Webster

CONSERVATIVE Eurosceptics are to step up pressure on Michael Howard to harden
his party's policy on the European Union after a poll suggesting that the
British people - particularly the young - would back a renegotiation of
Britain's membership terms.

A survey by ICM for the European Foundation over the weekend indicated that 58
per cent agreed that Britain should renegotiate EU treaties so that they were
reduced to trade and association agreements.

The poll found that 68 per cent of 18 to 24-year-olds backed a policy of
renegotiation. It also suggested that 63 per cent of professionals and managers
backed that policy, which has always been seen as a crucial step towards
withdrawal from the EU. Sixty per cent of the skilled working classes supported
it.

There were regional variations. Some 63 per cent of people in the South East and
65 per cent in Scotland supported renegotiation, a stance from which Mr Howard
has always kept clear.

The poll will enliven the European debate as a Bill to ratify the new European
Constitution is announced today in the Queen's Speech opening the new session of
Parliament.

The findings suggest that the Government's task of winning a referendum,
expected in the spring of 2006, is even more difficult than thought.

The findings will be used by senior Eurosceptics to back their case that a
hardline renegotiation stance by the Tories would severely weaken support,
including among natural Conservative voters, for the United Kingdom Independence
Party.

Polls have suggested that Conservative activists would back a tougher stance
from the leadership.

But Mr Howard would face a massive internal revolt, reviving memories of
divisions in the past two parliaments, if he were to back associate membership.

Last night Conservative MPs were pointing to a poll in The Economist last year
which suggested that if the policy of associate membership became explicit Tory
policy it could add eight percentage points to their votes in a general
election.

More than 1,000 adults were asked between November 19 and 21 whether they agreed
or disagreed that Britain should renegotiate the existing EU treaties so that
they were reduced to trade and association agreements.

William Cash, MP for Stone and chairman of the European Foundation, said last
night: "This is an extremely important poll. It shows that the people of
Britain, by a 25-point margin, want the existing European treaties to be
renegotiated in a new relationship with the European Union. We cannot ignore its
findings."

In a recent article Mr Cash argued that 60 per cent of laws were now made by the
EU. They already affected every aspect of people's daily lives even before the
introduction of the new constitution.

Even if the constitution were rejected in a referendum the problem of the
existing treaties would remain and it was essential that they be reformed.

Britain could not confine its renegotiation to foreign aid and the Common
Fisheries Policy, Mr Cash wrote. "We must resolve clearly the political
structure of Europe itself, returning power to the voter and to Parliament.

"Integration under Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice must be unravelled and the
market itself reformed to meet the opportunities of global trade and not be
hidebound by the protectionists in Europe."

He added: "We need, therefore, to commit ourself clearly to associate status and
not to integration in a rigid institutional framework."

*ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,003 adults aged 18 and over by telephone
between November 19 and 21.

ICM is a member of the British Polling Council.


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               22 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 22, 2004, Monday

Barroso's new team gets to work

BYLINE: Rory Watson

SECTION: Overseas news; 32

LENGTH: 568 words


MEPs will be keeping a watchful eye on the President's 'new and improved'
commission line-up, reports Rory Watson

AS HIS new team takes up office this morning in the European Commission's
refurbished Berlaymont headquarters, Jose Manuel Barroso, the new Commission
President, will be keenly aware that he and his colleagues are beginning work
under a cloud and are still on probation.

He has made it clear that pushing through economic reform and improving Europe's
competitive base will be his top priority. Within the next two weeks Senhor
Barroso, a former Prime Minister of Portugal, will put together a team of
Commissioners to join himself, Peter Mandelson, Britain's Commissioner who is in
charge of international trade, and Gunter Verheugen, the German member in charge
of industrial policy, to promote economic growth and the creation of jobs in the
Union.

The European Parliament gave its endorsement to the commission line-up last week
after Senhor Barroso had agreed to sacrifice two of the original nominees and to
reshuffle two other portfolios.

MEPs will be keeping a close watch on Neelie Kroes, the Dutch member in charge
of competition policy with considerable powers over corporate and government
behaviour. Critics believe that she will face inevitable conflicts of interest
because of the extensive business contacts she built up before coming to
Brussels.

To counter the criticism, Mrs Kroes has sold all her shares and pledged not to
sit on cases involving companies with which she was associated.

Commission officials have so far identified only three instances among the 1,000
investigations currently being conducted where Mrs Kroes will have to stand on
the sidelines.

It is unclear what role the former Dutch businesswoman, who has had links with
shipping companies in the past, will play when the Commission comes to reform
the competition rules that apply to maritime transport.

The biggest headache facing Senhor Barroso has come from an unexpected quarter:
Jacques Barrot, the French Commissioner, who is a vice-president in charge of
transport policy.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, caused a storm last week
when he revealed that M Barrot had received a suspended jail sentence four years
ago after being convicted for embezzlement in a political party funding case
dating from the early 1980s.

The French politician was involved in the legal action because of his senior
party position, although he was not directly involved in the affair and never
barred from standing for public office.

Senhor Barroso, who was unaware of the sentence until last Thursday, is standing
behind M Barrot. But, under pressure from MEPs, he confirmed at the weekend that
the commissioner would give the European Parliament "all the necessary
information relating to his personal situation".

Meanwhile, Mr Mandelson, who has twice been forced to resign as a British
minister, is expected to take a leading role in the drive for economic reform
and represent the 25-member European Union in sensitive negotiations with
commercial partners, including the United States, Russia, China and Japan.

He flies to Geneva this evening to meet officials at the World Trade
Organisation, the main referee on international trade disputes. On Thursday, he
will be in The Hague for an EU summit with members of the Russian Government.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               23 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 21, 2004, Sunday

Concealed conviction starts new EU rumpus

BYLINE: Nicola Smith, Brussels and Andrew Porter

SECTION: Home news; News; 7

LENGTH: 686 words


THE incoming president of the European commission is facing the wrath of the
European parliament for the second time in a row over a criminal conviction of
Jacques Barrot, his French commissioner.

Just days after his team was voted into office Jose Manuel Barroso may now be
forced to explain why they were kept in the dark about Barrot's suspended prison
sentence four years ago over a scandal about party funding.

The commission, which has been mired in controversy over the removal of Rocco
Buttiglione, the Italian commissioner, over his comments about women and
homosexuals, is due to start its work tomorrow, three weeks late.

"It is now imperative that both Mr Barroso and Mr Barrot come before the
parliament and explain this unfortunate situation," said Gary Titley, leader of
the British Labour MEPs.

Martin Schulz, the German leader of socialist MEPs, has called an emergency
meeting with Barroso and Barrot, expected to take place on Thursday or Friday.

One party source said MEPs, who vet commissioners before they enter office, were
going to be "very angry" they had known nothing about this aspect of Barrot's
past. "This is potentially very serious," he said. "Barroso must deal with this
or it will turn into another drawn-out conflict."

British officials are said to be exasperated at the latest turn of events. The
appointment of Barroso had been hailed as a triumph for Tony Blair because he
came from outside the Franco-German axis but now questions are being asked about
his suitability for such an important role.

Barrot was given a suspended sentence of eight months after he was convicted of
embezzlement in 2000 over the misuse of party political funds when he was
secretary-general of the centrist CDS party in France. He was embroiled in the
case because of his senior party position. The slate was immediately wiped
clean, however, by a presidential amnesty that covered all those given suspended
sentences of less than nine months or actual sentences of less than three
months.

The amnesty also makes it illegal to mention the case in the French media.

The issue of Barrot's conviction was raised on Friday by Nigel Farage, an MEP
from the UK Independence party. The commission said that Barrot had not been
directly implicated in the embezzlement and had "never been barred from public
office".

Barroso's spokesman said the commission president had been unaware of the
charges but continued to have full confidence in him. MEPs are, however,
unlikely to be placated easily so soon after forcing Barroso into a humiliating
withdrawal over Buttiglione.

Farage said there was no doubt the French commissioner ought to be fired. "Mr
Barrot chose not to make either the commission president or the parliament aware
that he had a conviction for embezzlement," he said. "It is inconceivable that
he simply 'forgot to mention it', and he should be sacked immediately in order
to regain what little public confidence the commission had in the first place."

Graham Watson, the leader of the Liberals in the European parliament, called on
Barroso to react quickly and "clarify the facts" together with the French
government.

UKIP has also been questioning the suitability of Siim Kallas, the Estonian
commissioner, who was allegedly embroiled in an oil-trading scam in the Baltic
state in 1993. Kallas has denied any wrongdoing, and parliamentary sources said
he staged a robust defence of his conduct during hearings. UKIP has also raised
doubts about the suitability of Louis Michel to be a commissioner. He is the
former foreign minister of Belgium.

Speculation is intensifying in Brussels over whether Barroso will be forced to
reconsider any appointments. He said he would take action against any
commissioner who lost the confidence of the parliament.

MEPs and Barroso agreed last week that if serious doubt were cast over an
appointment he would have three options. He could ask the commissioner to
resign, give the commissioner another portfolio, or order the commissioner to
appear before MEPs to explain his or her actions.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               24 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 21, 2004, Sunday

Saying nothing is the best defence

BYLINE: Piers Merchant

SECTION: Features; Ecosse; 3

LENGTH: 1137 words


Surviving a tabloid attack is a bruising experience but one that can serve to
make the victim stronger, writes Piers Merchant

He may be at the opposite end of the political spectrum to me, but Tommy
Sheridan has my sympathy as he reels from the full blast of a tabloid attack.

As a Tory MP during the dying months of the Major government the expose on me in
the red tops created a sensation for the readers and a personal disaster. So I
know only too well what Sheridan must be feeling and the crisis he has to face.

From the stomach-churning moment when the hack first pounces to the long,
sleepless night anxiously wondering what will come out; the harrowing walk to
the newsagent, hoping not to be recognised, then the shock at how much has been
written, it is a traumatic experience that I will never forget. Sheridan will be
going through what I faced more than seven years ago.

As the 1997 election began I was taken apart on the front page of The Sun, and
several inside pages too. The stories ran in every newspaper for a week as my
private life was intimately dissected, my relationships hung in the balance and
the future of my political career debated.

The focus of the story was my relationship with a political assistant. I was
married and Anna Cox was a pretty, blonde 17-year-old who, unknown to me, had
worked for a short time in a rather dubious Soho bar. It had all the ingredients
tabloids could wish for and the fact that, though close, I was not actually
having an affair with her at that stage was conveniently brushed aside.

Having survived this initial onslaught, the story returned six months later.

Driven together by the shared trauma, by then we were having an affair. The
tabloids had a field day. It was all over the front pages again and ran on and
on.

This time I resigned as an MP.

The mid-1990s were years of a no-holds-barred media feeding frenzy on the
private lives of public figures. Along with my fellow Tory MPs, I had lived
through increasingly lurid revelations about colleague after colleague. It
created an atmosphere of rising nervousness with everybody wondering who would
be next. I felt a strange, and probably typical, reaction to each new story. It
was a mixture of "How could he get in such a mess?" with "It must be hell to go
through that".

Instinctively I rehearsed how I would handle it, although I could not imagine
doing anything that would land me in the soup.

Then I did. In a few short days my world was turned upside down. I recruited a
new assistant, we went campaigning and ended up kissing on a park bench. In
other circumstances it might have been seen as romantic; but unknown to me this
was a set-up and tabloid photographers were hidden in the bushes.

The first I knew was 24 hours later. As I emerged from my home I was pounced
upon by a reporter waving some indistinct photos, firing questions at me. It
took about a millisecond for me to twig. Somehow I had known it would happen one
day.

There is no doubt that the correct course of action is to say nothing, as John
Major did when he was exposed as Edwina Curry's former lover. Tabloid reporting
is skilful and the slightest utterance will be used against you with devastating
effect. However, it is extremely difficult to stay silent under the intense and
provocative questions and an instinctive reaction is to defend yourself, as
Boris Johnson discovered.

When reporters pounced the first time I gave extra life to the story by failing
to resist the temptation to defend myself. The second time I issued a carefully
worded written statement which bounced back and bit me. Only the third time did
I have the composure to practise what I have preached, and said nothing.

The more you say, the more you will give the story life. If you pose for
pictures, or simply allow pictures to be taken, the same occurs. Johnson
recently proved both those points. It is best to disappear for a while, as
little can then be written and even less photographed.

That is easier said than done. You have to maintain an iron grip and absolute
self-control. You have to think extremely quickly. On one occasion I was
cornered in a station. To slip away without being followed I persuaded a very
helpful guard to let me board an obscure local service at the last moment
without a ticket and not knowing where I was going.

It is even more difficult to handle the repercussions. On each occasion my first
thoughts were how to protect those closest to me from the follow-up calls or
photos. I had to get to them before the hacks, despite the difficulties and
consequences of having to own up to what was about to lead to public
humiliation.

It is only right to do that directly but it also helps them practically by
enabling them at least to be ready. It is difficult to advise without appearing
to be manipulative, but where possible, in everybody's interests, it is best for
them to say nothing.

At the same time a politician has to face all the implications. Political
friends will be supportive, enemies will use the embarrassment gleefully. Many
on both sides are instinctively supportive on the basis of "there but for the
grace of God go I".

Six months later, the second part of the story broke. The chief whip did not
want me to resign because it would cause a by-election. Neil Hamilton phoned to
tell me there was no point trying to contact John Major as he had gone to bed at
9pm with a warm mug of milk. I now realise he was probably on the point of a
nervous breakdown expecting he would be next.

My morale finally broke when it became clear that the second instalment of the
story was about to be published. I was weary and resigned. It was my lowest
moment and my biggest mistake. I had forgotten that the first rule of politics
is survival and the key to survival is maintaining supreme self-confidence.

Although my first 10 years of working life was as a newspaper journalist,
nothing prepared me for the ruthless determination of tabloid hacks who had
scented a kill. But I had not expected the support and kindness I received from
ordinary people who displayed the tolerance, open-mindedness and respect for the
individual that I now know underpins British society. This experience had a
profound effect, leaving me more understanding of people with personal
difficulties. And I'm still with my wife Helen.

To those, like Sheridan, who face similar challenges I have learnt the answer is
to rise above the comments of others, to set new goals and work with
determination to achieve them - without looking back.

After he resigned as an MP, Piers Merchant worked as an independent financial
adviser, before becoming campaigns director for the London Chamber of Commerce.
He is now the acting chief executive of UKIP


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               25 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               November 21, 2004

CROSS BENCHER; LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 91 words


Nigel Farage, the UKIP MEP, was shocked last week to be threatened with arrest
for telling the truth to the European Parliament after he revealed that the
French Commissioner-designate, Jacques Barrot, had a conviction for embezzling
£2million of government funds.

Since Barrot has been granted an amnesty by French President Jacques Chirac -
making it illegal under French law to mention the conviction - Farage could face
prison for speaking out. Fearless Farage chuckles: "That wouldn't be a problem
for me - I went to public school."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               26 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               November 21, 2004

UKIP CHIEF 'TO NAME SECOND CROOK'

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 299 words


UKIP's Nigel Farage is threatening to unmask a second European Commissioner as a
fraudster, creating a crisis for EU bureaucrats.

The UK Independence Party has already exposed the new French EU Commissioner
Jacques Barrot as a convicted embezzler who was once barred from holding public
office.

And last night Mr Farage, the party's leader in Brussels, vowed to name and
shame a second commissioner. He maintained: "I have new revelations of a similar
nature against other commissioners.

There is one in particular that we are looking at very hard.

"Because of the reaction to my first statement I am doing some really careful
research.

We hope to reveal the details this week."

Mr Farage revealed that Mr Barrot was convicted in 2000 for embezzling party
funds, but was granted an amnesty by French President Jacques Chirac, who
himself will face fraud charges when he leaves power. Because of the revelation,
new Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso is already facing calls from all
sides of the political spectrum to sack Mr Barrot.

Mr Farage added: "Mr Barroso has been hoodwinked. This conviction was hushed up.
The first that Mr Barroso knew about it was when I raised it on Thursday."

The Commission President has already been forced to dump the Italian Commission
nominee Rocco Buttiglione after his remarks about homosexuals and women caused
fury among MEPs. Being forced to axe a second or even third commissioner would
leave his credibility in tatters right at the start of his fiveyear term of
office.

Mr Farage said: "Barroso is now in very, very big trouble.

He said that if at any stage a commissioner loses the confidence of the
Parliament he will enforce a resignation.

That is not legally binding, but it is politically binding."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               27 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           November 21, 2004, Sunday

THE BARROT BOY Don't mention the fraud

BYLINE: By Christopher Booker

SECTION: News; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 304 words

It became obvious yesterday that Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence
Party's MEPs, had pulled off quite a coup in the European Parliament. Last
Thursday in Strasbourg he revealed that the EU's new transport commissioner,
Jacques Barrot, had been given an eight-month suspended prison sentence in 2000
for his involvement in a French political funding scandal. Mr Barrot's role in
the illegal transfer of pounds 2.5 million into party funds had been hushed up
by the grant of a "presidential amnesty", making it illegal under French law to
mention his conviction.

On Friday the Commission's president, Jose Manuel Barroso, clearly embarrassed,
admitted that he had not known of Mr Barrot's criminal record when appointing
him as a vice-president. By yesterday the leaders of both the Liberal and
Socialist groups in the European Parliament, who had initially scorned the UKIP
leader's revelations, were reluctantly supporting him.

Tomorrow Mr Farage plans to throw more fuel on the fire. He will raise questions
about the record of other commissioners approved by the Parliament last week,
most notably Siim Kallas, now holder of the anti-fraud portfolio. In the late
1990s Estonia's former finance minister, previously a leading Communist,
underwent a long-running trial for the theft of $10 million from Estonia's
Central Bank during an oil-trading scam in 1993. He was eventually acquitted,
but again it will be asked how much Mr Barroso was aware of this before he chose
Mr Kallas to root out fraud in the EU.

Even before starting work, it seems Mr Barroso's team could be facing
embarrassments as great as those which led to the resignation of the entire
Commission in 1999. How apt, it may be thought, that this was set in train by a
party that wishes to see Britain out of the EU altogether.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               28 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           November 21, 2004, Sunday

Barroso under pressure to fire commissioner over past crime Newly appointed EC
transport chief failed to disclose suspended prison sentence

BYLINE: BY DAVID WASTELL Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: News; International; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 708 words

JOSE MANUEL Barroso, the president of the European Commission, is under mounting
pressure to fire the newly appointed transport commissioner for failing to
declare a criminal conviction.

Jacques Barrot, the EU transport commissioner, received an eight-month suspended
prison sentence in France four years ago after a party funding scandal.

Although Mr Barrot and other French politicians involved in the scandal were
granted official pardons, Euro-MPs are furious that he did not reveal its
existence before they voted to confirm the new commission in office last week.

Mr Barroso is understood to be angry that Mr Barrot did not mention it, even
privately, during talks over the appointment of the new commission. He
apparently pressed Mr Barrot to take on the important justice and home affairs
brief and was baffled when he refused. "Now we know what was behind that," one
European official said. "It would have been asking for trouble for someone with
a previous conviction to take on that responsibility."

Last night, leading members of the European Parliament called for Mr Barrot to
be removed from office, after learning of his conviction for the first time.
They are pressing Mr Barroso to force him from his post if he does not resign
voluntarily.

Graham Watson, the leader of the European Liberal group, said: "Someone
convicted of corruption involving a jail sentence should not hold such a post."

"The quicker Mr Barroso moves to replace him, the better. It seems reprehensible
that Barrot did not see fit to advise either Barroso or the parliament of such a
material fact."

Jonathan Evans, the leader of the British Conservative delegation in the
European Parliament, said: "Mr Barrot should consider his position and if he
does not do so, Mr Barroso ought to consider it for him. He should ask him to
step down."

The commission president also faces pressure from the powerful Socialist group
of Euro-MPs whose leader, Martin Schulz, has demanded an emergency meeting to
seek an explanation of what happened.

Although Mr Barroso's officials said on Friday that he has "full confidence" in
Mr Barrot, he is under growing pressure to honour a pledge to the European
Parliament to remove from office any commissioner who loses the support of
Euro-MPs.

The row erupted after Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party's leader in
Strasbourg, disclosed Mr Barrot's conviction during a session of the European
Parliament on Thursday, just after Euro-MPs voted to confirm the commission for
a five-year term.

At the time, rival party leaders, including Mr Watson, queued up to denounce Mr
Farage's attack on Mr Barrot and other members of the new commission. Later,
however, his remarks were confirmed as being accurate.

Last night Mr Farage said: "This is all deeply embarrassing for Mr Barroso and
he will have to get something changed. Whatever French law says, it is totally
wrong that this information about Mr Barrot was not revealed. It has made a fool
of the parliament and of the other party leaders who were so pleased with the
new commission. It has made a fool of Mr Barroso too."

He said his information was based on "good, old-fashioned research" and promised
further revelations this week on other "unsuitable" members of the commission.

The furore has baffled officials in France, where the affair - involving pounds
2.5 million of public money, misappropriated for campaign funding by the Social
Democratic Centre (CDS) party when Mr Barrot was party secretary - had been
largely forgotten.

Mr Barrot did not appeal against his conviction, his supporters say, because he
knew that he and other politicians involved were due to be granted a general
amnesty. Under French law, once Mr Barrot was pardoned it became illegal to
mention the conviction again in public.

The turmoil comes only three weeks after Mr Barroso's original team of
commissioners was rejected by the European Parliament. The traditional views on
homosexuality and the role of women held by the Italian nominee, Rocco
Buttiglione, clashed with those of Euro-MPs.

The new commission, with a replacement for Mr Buttiglione, will take office
tomorrow, after one final hurdle - formal approval by the European Council - is
cleared.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               29 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 20, 2004

French EU chief 'was once convicted of fraud'

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 459 words


THE European Commission was mired in a new scandal yesterday after it emerged
that the French Commissioner is a convicted embezzler.

Jacques Barrot was found guilty of embezzling party funds and given an eight-
month suspended jail sentence by a French court in 2000 but had the conviction
expunged by presidential amnesty.

The European Parliament was told on Thursday night minutes before the new
25-strong team was voted overwhelmingly into office.

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage, who revealed Mr Barrot's history, was then attacked by
most of the mainstream parties. Parliament President Josep Borrell told Mr
Farage to reflect on the possible 'legal consequences' of his action.

The same MEPs last month forced Italian politician Rocco Buttiglione to withdraw
from the Commission for expressing his views that homosexuality is a 'sin' and
that a woman's place is in the home.

Mr Barrot takes up his new job as transport commissioner on Monday.

He had not told his boss, Commission P resident Jose Manuel Barroso, about his
conviction.

The row is a massive embarrassment to Mr Barroso, who is already struggling to
impose his authority following the Buttiglione fiasco.

Gary Titley, leader of Britain's Labour MEPs, said: 'This is about public
standards. All new commissioners are supposed to provide details of any past
matters which By David Hughes Political Editor may have an impact on their
appointment. Mr Barrot could have set out the situation, including the amnesty.
That option was open to him but he did not take it.' A spokesman for Mr Barroso
said he knew nothing of the criminal conviction until Thursday, but still had
full confidence in Mr Barrot.

Mr Barrot's conviction involved the misuse of party political funds.

At the time, he was secretary-general of the centrist CDS party in France.

He was involved in the case because of his senior position but was not directly
implicated in the alleged embezzlement. As soon as sentence was passed, the
amnesty was automatically invoked, nullifying the outcome of the case.

Mr Barrot's lawyer John-Pierre Mignard has warned that any reference to a legal
decision subject of amnesty is liable to legal action under the French penal
code.

Mr Barrot has demanded that Mr Farage withdraw his comments, which he said
'appear very much to be defamatory'.

But Mr Farage said: 'The European Parliament is prepared to overlook the
conviction of a senior member of the Commission for embezzling government funds,
and is prepared instead to threaten with arrest the person who reveals it.

'What clearer indication can there possibly be of the corruption and hypocrisy
which pervades the entire European project from the lowest to the highest
levels?'

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: JACQUES BARROT: AMNESTY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               30 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 20, 2004

A married politician leading a double life with his mistress and his wife.
Sounds familiar? Meet the secret lover of Piers Merchant, who makes even look
respectable

BYLINE: NATASHA COURTENAY-SMITH

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 30; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 2622 words


READING the revelations about Boris Johnson's affair with his Spectator
colleague Petronella Wyatt this week, Caroline Bew could not help but feel
fascinated by the duplicitous life of the colourful politician, as well as
sympathise with his pretty mistress.

Indeed, such is her interest that her living room floor is scattered with
newspaper articles about the scandal.

She has even gone as far as to telephone Petronella's mother, Lady Wyatt, to
offer her heartbroken daughter a shoulder to cry on - an extravagant gesture
considering the two women have never met.

But Caroline, an attractive property consultant, knows only too well what it is
like to be a key player in a menage a trois involving a beguiling politician and
his loyal wife, because for the past four years she has been the mistress of the
current chief executive of the UK Independence Party, Piers Merchant.

He, of course, is the former Conservative MP famous for his illicit fling with
17-year-old blonde nightclub hostess Anna Cox in 1997. It was a tawdry scandal
that led to him relinquishing his seat as MP for Beckenham in Kent, as well as
being accused of casting shame upon the party in the run up to a General
Election.

Like Petronella, Caroline has been devastated by the fact that her paramour
seems unwilling to forsake his wife and children for her. But although she
realises many will dismiss her as a seductress foolish enough to get involved
with a married man, she insists she is the wronged party in this particular love
triangle.

She claims Merchant, who often boasted to her about his ability as a politician
to 'influence and persuade people', created a complex but convincing web of lies
around himself that would have fooled the shrewdest of people.

He assured Caroline, undoubtedly an intelligent and articulate woman, that his
marriage was over.

In fact, the Mail believes that Merchant may even have gone as far as falsifying
documents in order to provide his lover with proof of a non-existent divorce.

It is an extraordinary set of circumstances, both damning for a politician who
has had to rebuild his career and reputation after the 1997 scandal, and
heartbreaking for Caroline, who says she would never have agreed to a
relationship with Merchant had she not been convinced his marriage was over.

'I never had any ambition or desire to be a mistress,' she says. 'We had a
proper, normal relationship and did all the things that normal couples do. I
believed I was his girlfriend, that we would get married and have children
together. Certainly that is what he promised me. Now I see what a fool I was to
believe him.' Caroline, the daughter of a successful chartered accountant and a
housewife, met Merchant in the spring of 2000, when he started working at the
London Chamber of Commerce, where she had been a sales executive for three
years.

'I didn't really know who he was because I'd been away in 1997 doing a ski
season when the scandal about him and Anna Cox broke,' she recalls. 'But
everyone was excited about the fact the notorious Piers Merchant was coming to
work with us and I was intrigued.' It wasn't, Caroline says, love at first
sight. 'He was just a nice guy who was part of the large group of people who
occasionally socialised after work. We got on well and often stopped in the
corridors for a chat. We'd both grown up in the same area of the Midlands and
had a similar sense of humour.' 'Piers really pursued me. He used to deliver
papers to my house in Surrey even though they could easily have been posted, and
always seemed to appear wherever I was in the building.

'Later, Piers told me he used to think of excuses to walk past my desk. I wish
I'd been more wary of his reputation, but he seemed so pleasant and I thought
anyone would have learned their lessons from the sort of ordeal he must have
been through in 1997.' That autumn, after Caroline had left her job at the
Chamber of Commerce, they embarked on their affair. 'One afternoon, when he
turned up under the guise of bringing me some papers, I let him drive my sports
car.

'Out of the blue, he turned round and told me he loved me. I was surprised, but
I was falling under his spell.

Shortly afterwards he came around again. That time, as we sat on the sofa, he
leaned over and kissed me. It was impossible not to fall for him.' After dating
for three months, the couple became lovers. Caroline knew that Merchant was
still married to his longsuffering wife, Helen, but, she says, was clearly told
the marriage was over, save for the final documentation of the divorce.

'As I understood it, Piers was married in name only,' she says. 'He lived alone
in his bachelor flat in London and estate in Devon, both of which I regularly
visited, and neither contained Helen's possessions or clothes.

HE PRESENTED himself as a man who was separated, but in a very difficult
situation, with a problematic wife who wasn't allowing him to see the children
or to get a divorce.

'But he said Helen was happy with the fact he had girlfriends, which I assumed
she must have been because for two-and-a-half years he'd had a very public
relationship with Anna Cox. He also showed me a letter from Helen to him in
which she referred to me, and said she considered the estate in Devon to be mine
and Piers' territory.

'From the sheer amount of week nights and weekends we spent together, and the
hours we spent on the phone, it was impossible that he was having any kind of
conventional relationship with Helen.

'Although I encouraged him to see as much of his children as possible, he rarely
visited the family home in Beckenham, and I always thought he had every
intention of divorcing her.' Some may question whether Caroline simply fell for
the oldest trick in the book - namely that a married man with a history of
infidelity is unlikely ever to leave his wife, no matter how much he protests to
the contrary.

And yet, unlike Anna Cox, Caroline does not fall into the stereotypical mould of
a gullible young woman happy to become the mistress of a wealthy politician. The
eldest of two children, she enjoyed a middleclass upbringing in an affluent area
of Derbyshire, attending a local grammar school before going on to study
business and French at a college in London.

At 23, after saving every penny from a job as a travel rep at Heathrow airport,
she was able to buy her first property.

Discerning investments in the property market and a nine-year career as an
estate agent mean she now lives comfortably off the rental incomes from two
houses and one flat, and also works as a freelance property consultant.

BEFORE meeting Piers, Caroline had been engaged to her partner of three years, a
manager in a removals company, but was unsure about their future together
because he was nine years her junior. In Piers it seemed she had finally met her
perfect match.

Indeed, such was her confidence in her relationship that Caroline introduced the
man she considered her husband-to-be to her family and friends, apparently
unconcerned that he was very much a married man.

They went on romantic holidays to France, Germany and Holland.

Weekends were full of long walks, house renovations and home-cooked meals.

'Piers was tremendous fun, incredibly attentive and absolutely adoring,' she
says. 'We were madly in love and constantly made plans for our future.'

Merchant didn't behave like a man who had no intention of leaving his wife.

He took Caroline to all his official engagements, where they rubbed shoulders
with Ken Livingstone, William Hague and Peter Mandelson, and wrote her enough
love letters to fill a carrier bag.

He also bought her an emerald which, he said, he would have cast into an
engagement ring. They even made plans to buy properties in Sussex and Brussels,
as well as to start a family of their own.

'He used to call me his lucky charm, because he said I gave him the confidence
to revive his political career, stand as an MEP for the UK Independence Party (a
job he didn't get) and we often sat up late discussing what he should do next. I
told him he had to do what made him happy, because I knew he wanted to be back
in politics.

'Piers gave me as much as I gave him. He was fantastic around the house and was
constantly fixing things for me. We were very well matched physically too, and
although our relationship wasn't all about sex, it was very passionate.' But for
all Piers' promises, by the summer of 2002, Caroline began to doubt his
commitment to getting divorced, and to the marriage and children he'd so often
promised her.

'We were spending all our time together in a loving relationship, but I started
to feel, quite naturally I think, that without his divorce we weren't really
going anywhere. Whenever I brought it up, he told me to be patient, blamed Helen
for being obstructive and said that it was simply a matter of waiting a little
longer.' They are words that must be bitterly familiar to a million impatient
mistresses.

Indeed, by early 2003, her patience stretched to its limit, Caroline broke up
with Piers. 'I still loved him and I hoped the break would spur him into action.

But he pleaded with me to take him back, saying he needed my support, and after
two months, I foolishly gave in. I knew that divorce can be lengthy and I
decided to give us another go.' But Caroline soon began to have serious
misgivings about Merchant's honesty. 'I gradually realised he was lying to me.
He always had his phones diverted all over the place, which made it impossible
to pinpoint where he was. He would say he was at his home in Devon, when I could
clearly hear the background noise of a train.' On one occasion that summer,
suspecting he was lying about his whereabouts, Caroline drove to the family home
in Beckenham where Helen still lives with the children.

'I phoned him and he said he was driving down the A303 to his Devon estate. I
asked him if he was sure and he said: 'I swear on my mother's life.' But I could
see him standing in front of the house, talking on his phone to me.

'I should have left him there and then, but he was so persuasive that I gave in.
He told me his journey to Devon had been delayed because his car had broken
down.

'He should have just told me that in the first place, but he spent hours
apologising, telling me he loved me and saying what a fool he'd been. It wasn't
that I thought he was still having a physical relationship with Helen, I just
felt lied to.' And yet, either naive or foolhardy, Caroline forgave him again.
It was an unwise decision to say the least, given his history of infidelity.

When, in October 2003, Merchant showed Caroline copies of divorce papers which,
he told her, had been lodged at Barnstable court, and, soon after, a letter from
an 'independent mediator' who, he claimed, was helping him and Helen come to a
financial settlement, she thought his divorce was finally under way.

However, an encounter with a colleague of Merchant's at a party in December
again highlighted that her boyfriend was not as honourable as he claimed.

'We were discussing a helicopter ride Piers had arranged as a special treat for
his son, when his colleague suddenly said: "And they seem such a happy family
and Helen is lovely, too."

'I was horrified - Piers had told me Helen hadn't been there for the occasion. I
was so angry I threw a drink over Piers.

'He said he hadn't told me because he was embarrassed Helen had forced herself
along, but I didn't know what to believe. All I knew was that there was no
reason to lie.

I'm not selfish enough not to understand why Helen would want to be there for
such a special occasion.

'Similarly, Piers lied to me about a house he and Helen bought for their
daughter, something that I'd even suggested he should do. He told me
categorically he wasn't prepared to buy her a house, yet did it in secret with
Helen.

'I suspected, because I saw an email from his daughter in his inbox with 'House'
written in the subject box. But even then he lied, and said the email was just
her change of address details. Months later, he confessed the truth.

WHENEVER we talked about it he dismissed me as being 'fanatical' about the
truth, or said he was scared I'd be angry with him. By the end of last year, I
was regularly suggesting our only option was to break up, but Piers had an
answer for everything.

'I admit I was stupid and naive to keep going with the relationship, but he was
always so persuasive and I loved him.

'He managed to keep me hopeful by making overblown gestures, such as finding out
what train I was travelling on and then appearing on a seat next to me out of
the blue, and saying things like: "I want you to have my baby." He'd also spend
hours pouring out his feelings and declaring his undying love.'

But, with her doubts about his integrity growing, Caroline contacted Barnstable
court, where Merchant claimed to have lodged his divorce papers, only to be told
there was no record of the case.

Her attempts to track down the 'independent mediator' from whom Piers had
received letters, and whose meetings he had described in detail, also failed.

The Kent-based mediation service for whom Merchant claimed this woman worked has
no knowledge of her existence. Similar checks by the Mail have drawn the same
conclusions.

When approached by the Mail yesterday at his estate in Devon, Piers Merchant
said he had 'No comment' to make about his relationship with Caroline Bew, and
refused to discuss allegations of deliberately misleading her and falsifying
documents. When asked if these allegations were untrue, again he replied: 'No
comment.' Merchant's wife, Helen, admitted knowing who Caroline Bew was, but
repeated three times: 'No comment, I have no comment,' before hanging up the
telephone.

Caroline ended her relationship with Piers in March this year, when she became
close to a new man whom she is now dating, and whom she felt she could trust in
a way she was unable to with Piers.

'I'm still in shock that the future I thought I had may never have existed.

Even worse, by staying with Piers so long I may have left it too late to have a
child of my own.

'But I'd be a fool to give him another chance, because he is still lying to me.
Just last weekend, he came round and gave me a letter attempting to explain why
he lies.

Then he left, saying he was driving to Nottingham to see his mother.

'I later phoned to check he'd arrived safely, and his brother said he'd never
been there at all. Piers then confessed in a tearful telephone message that he'd
gone to Beckenham to see the children. I just don't understand why he'd lie
about that. I can only think he has some sort of compulsion for not telling the
truth.

'I don't know if I'll ever get to the bottom of it all - all I know is that I
can't be in a relationship which isn't based on honesty. I don't feel as though
I've ever been in full possession of the facts throughout our relationship. I
have no idea whether Piers was leading a double life, or whether he and Helen
had some sort of agreement about me.

'It's easy for people to assume that as the mistress, I had all this coming to
me, and I'm certainly prepared to accept some of the blame for getting involved
with someone before their divorce was finalised. But I genuinely feel like a
wronged party.' Of course, there is no doubting the risk of heartache for any
woman who embarks on an affair with a married man.

But it seems Piers Merchant has gone to extraordinary lengths to deceive the
people he claims to love, a revelation which can only further damage his fragile
reputation.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WRONGED: CAROLINE BEW SAYS PIERS MERCHANT, BELOW WITH HIS WIFE HELEN,
LIED TO HER THROUGHOUT THEIR AFFAIR

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               31 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 20, 2004, Saturday

New row at EC over funding conviction of MEP

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News; International Pg. 17

LENGTH: 589 words

THE new European Commission was embroiled in a fresh crisis yesterday within
hours of being approved by the European Parliament for a five-year term.

Euro-MPs demanded to know why they had not been told that Jacques Barrot,
France's commissioner, had been given a suspended prison sentence four years ago
when he was caught up in a party funding scandal.

Martin Schulz, MEP, the leader of the 200-strong Socialist bloc, called an
emergency meeting with Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the Commission,
complaining that vital information had been withheld.

One leading socialist told The Daily Telegraph that Mr Barrot's survival as a
comissioner might be in doubt. "The issue of resignation is on the table. It's
unbelievable that a matter of such gravity was not disclosed. There's no point
having parliamentary hearings if we let the Commission get away with this," he
said.

The fiasco is a fresh blow for Mr Barroso, who takes office on Monday three
weeks late after the unprecedented rejection of his original team, chiefly
because of controversial remarks by Rocco Buttiglione, Italy's proposed
commissioner, on homosexuality and women's domestic role.

Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party's leader in Strasbourg, disclosed the
conviction at a tumultuous session of the Parliament on Thursday.

Mr Barrot, the Commission vice-president in charge of transport, was pardoned in
a general amnesty passed by the French Assembly, making it illegal to mention
the case in the French media.

Jose Barroso learned about the case along with everybody else on Thursday. He
nevertheless retains "full confidence" in Mr Barrot.

His spokesman played down the lack of disclosure. "Mr Barrot has never been
barred from public office, and has never, ever been accused of any personal
enrichment," he said.

Gary Titley, MEP, the Labour leader, reacted furiously. "It's not up to them to
decide. The European Parliament was denied the chance to have a debate. It's
simply not good enough to say the conviction had been struck off the record in
an amnesty. Everything should have been disclosed," he said.

Graham Watson, the European Liberal leader, called on the Commission and the
French government to take urgent action. "The case in which he was involved
would disqualify him from holding public office in many EU member states," he
said.

Mr Barrot accused Mr Farage of "defamation". While admitting the central
allegation, he denied Mr Farage's claim that he had also been subjected to a
two-year ban on public office.

"He must withdraw his comments. Legal avenues are always open," he said.

EU sources say the French amnesty has done him more harm than good. He has
always maintained his innocence and would otherwise have appealed against the
conviction in 2000.

The case involved pounds 2.5million of public money misappropriated for campaign
funding by the Social Democrat Centre (CDS) when Mr Barrot was party secretary
in the late 1980s and early 1990s.

He insisted that he was out of loop. "I had no responsibility whatsoever for the
financial matters in the CDS. I was convicted on the basis of collegiality," he
said.

Mr Barroso gave MEPs an assurance this week that he would sack any commissioner
who lost the confidence of the parliament. Nobody imagined that this pledge
might be put to the test so soon.

Hans-Gert Pottering, MEP, the leader of the conservative bloc, which includes
the Tories, praised Mr Barrot, saying on Thursday: "What Mr Farage said is not
worthy of the European Parliament."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               32 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 20, 2004

Ukip stokes row over Barroso deputy

BYLINE: David Gow in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 306 words


Jose Manuel Barroso, the new European commission president, faced a fresh row
yesterday after one of his team was accused of failing to disclose an
embezzlement conviction.

Jacques Barrot, the transport commissioner and commission vice-president, was
accused by Nigel Farage, leader of the Ukip MEPs, of concealing his eight-month
suspended sentence handed down four years ago in a French political party
funding scandal.

Mr Barroso, who expressed full confidence in Mr Barrot, is under severe pressure
to appear before the parliament to give a full explanation of why his senior
colleague withheld information about his conviction - and a pardon and indemnity
immediately issued by President Jacques Chirac. Socialist leaders are demanding
urgent talks with Mr Barroso and Mr Barrot amid suggestions that the commission
president will also be summoned to an emergency meeting next week with the
leaders of the eight political groups in the parliament, including Mr Farage.

Mr Farage was condemned by political group leaders for his attack on Mr Barrot
and other commissioners, and might face legal action despite his parliamentary
immunity, because Mr Barrot's lawyer, Jean-Pierre Mignard, said any public
reference to a conviction under the French amnesty laws was illegal. Josep
Borrell, the parliament's president, confirmed he was determined to act against
the Ukip leader.

An unrepentant Mr Farage last night called for Mr Barrot's resignation or
dismissal.

Mr Barroso's spokesman said Mr Barrot, a former secretary general of the
centrist CDS party embroiled in the funding scandal, had a "clean record" and,
contrary to Mr Farage's assertions, had never been debarred from public office.

Mr Farage said that he was prepared to withdraw that part of his allegations if
it was proved to be untrue.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               33 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 20, 2004, Saturday

WEEK IN POLITICS: TORIES SHIVER AS BLAIR EYES MORE OF THEIR CLOTHES

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 928 words


WHAT WAS the cause of the cries of jubilation in Downing Street this week? The
end to the marathon saga of fox hunting? The NOP poll in The Independent showing
Labour nine points ahead? The verbal assault on Gordon Brown when he invited a
gaggle of pro-Europeans to the Treasury?

No. The whoops of delight in No 10 were prompted by a newspaper interview given
by the Leader of the Opposition, a revealing sign of the times. Michael Howard
told The Guardian about his frustration at Tony Blair's ability to steal the
Tories' clothes and to "look and sound like a Tory".

For some Labour prime ministers, that would be an insult. But Mr Blair took it
as a compliment. Phrases like "game, set and match" and "mission accomplished"
were bandied around as Blair's team savoured the interview.

The bad news for Mr Howard is that Mr Blair will colonise even more of the
political centre ground in the next few days. The Queen's Speech on Tuesday will
include 28 Bills and another eight in draft form. Several will have a "safety
and security" theme, ranging from serious crime to antisocial behaviour and
identity cards. These measures will be given priority in the curtailed
parliamentary session that will take place before the general election expected
next May.

Mr Howard's frustration will be compounded. The raft of "security" legislation
will be difficult for the Tories to oppose, without looking "soft" on crime. But
if they support it, they will be an echo chamber for the Government, so why
should anyone vote Tory?

Labour is already facing criticism for trying to turn next May into a "security"
election based on the "politics of fear", an issue I explored in this space last
week. Ministers admit they are trying to neutralise Labour's potential
"negative" issues: its private polls give it a big lead over the Tories on
terrorism and security in general, although the two parties are broadly neck and
neck on crime and disorder and the Tories ahead on asylum.

Mr Blair is anxious to learn lessons from the recent elections in the United
States and Australia, where left-of-centre candidates talked a good game on
"opportunity" but did not win the voters' trust on "security". Parties of the
left have traditionally been more comfortable on the social agenda, with their
right-wing opponents happier to occupy the law and order territory. "To win
elections, you have to be able to win on both security and opportunity," one
Blairite cabinet minister told me yesterday.

So ministers insist the Queen's Speech will provide only half of the picture.
After addressing what they call "people's general sense of insecurity in a
fast-changing world" they will move from "fear to hope" by spelling out
proposals to extend opportunities and allow people to realise their aspirations.
The key events here will be Gordon Brown's pre-Budget report next month and his
pre-election Budget next spring.

Mr Blair may have sidelined the Chancellor from planning the election but he is
relying heavily on him to deliver the goods on the "opportunity" agenda. Watch
out for measures on child care, time off for working parents and other moves to
help "hard-working families" and pensioners.

The Government is ruthlessly pulling all the levers at its disposal, just as Mr
Howard could do once, a long time ago. For example, proposals to tackle
drug-related crime were peppered around different Bills. So Mr Blair came up
with a nice wheeze: why not have a separate Drugs Bill just to put the issue in
neon lighting?

Since becoming Labour leader, Mr Blair has always been determined to occupy the
Tories' natural territory. It is no coincidence that William Hague and Iain
Duncan Smith took over their defeated party promising to fight on the centre
ground but found themselves pushed out to the right - partly by Labour and
partly to prop up their own position.

Mr Blair hopes that Mr Howard is now repeating the mistake, in part to see off
the threat from the UK Independence Party. He is convinced that the Tory leader
has missed a golden opportunity to modernise his party.

Another guiding principle for Mr Blair - a trick he learnt from Mr Brown - is to
lay down "dividing lines" between the two main parties. He will be quite happy
to fight on Labour's public investment versus Tory tax cuts. But the Tories need
other dividing lines, notably on crime and security. The Queen's Speech is
designed to make it very hard to find them.

One remaining negative for Mr Blair, of course, is Iraq. He is not going to say
sorry because he's not.

But he is pondering how to adopt a more conciliatory tone which acknowledges the
genuinely held views of those who opposed the war. The aim is to woo back the
people, perhaps three million of them, who still share Labour's values but do
not intend to vote for the party.

The Prime Minister wants a sort of truce with his Iraq critics under which both
sides acknowledge their differences and move on to the "bread and butter" issues
which - he hopes - are more likely to decide the election.

Interestingly, he managed to achieve a similar accord when he held talks on
Thursday with Jacques Chirac, the French President, who is usually an awkward
customer.

Blair allies believe that there is a wider lesson in the truce with M. Chirac.
"It's a bit like a relationship; you don't agree 100 per cent on everything with
your partner but you still want to stay together," said one aide.

We will have to wait until May to discover whether the voters feel the same
about Mr Blair.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               34 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 20, 2004, Saturday

BARROSO IN THE DARK OVER COMMISSIONER'S SUSPENDED JAIL TERM

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Jacques Barrot: Has clean record under French
law

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 646 words


ONE DAY after his team of commissioners was approved by MEPs, the new European
Commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso, admitted that he was kept in the dark
over a conviction handed out to France's representative.

The revelations surrounding Jacques Barrot, who takes over as transport
commissioner on Monday, have threatened to provoke a new political storm, just
as Mr Barroso thought he had drawn a line under a bitter dispute with MEPs.

The European Commission said yesterday that M. Barrot had failed to tell Mr
Barroso that he had been given an official pardon after receiving a suspended
prison sentence in 2000 over a funding scandal involving his political party.
However, Mr Barroso said he retained confidence in his French commissioner who,
according to French law, has a clean record.

Amid growing consternation, Martin Schulz, leader of the socialist MEPs - the
second largest group in the parliament - demanded meetings with Mr Barroso and
M. Barrot, and hinted that there could be parliamentary pressure on the French
commissioner to quit.

Gary Titley, leader of Labour's 19 MEPs, said it was "a gross betrayal of public
trust that this matter was not brought to our attention".

Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for the Commission, said Mr Barroso knew nothing
of the wiped conviction until Thursday. But he added: "Mr Barroso has full
confidence in M. Barrot. M. Barrot performed impressively during his
confirmation hearing in front of MEPs for his new job and Mr Barroso is looking
forward to working with M. Barrot."

Nevertheless, the row over the conviction, revealed by the UK Independence Party
MEP, Nigel Farage, is a setback to Mr Barroso, whose team of commissioners had
been prevented from taking office for three weeks following a separate row over
Italy's original nominee for the justice and home affairs portfolio, Rocco
Buttiglione. Mr Buttiglione was forced to stand down after describing
homosexuality as a sin.

Mr Farage said: "It is perfectly clear that M. Barrot should be removed. Mr
Barroso has been hoodwinked; the European Parliament has been hoodwinked. We
have been forced to make a decision without proper information."

M. Barrot was convicted in 2000 in a case involving the misuse of the funds of a
political party of which he was then secretary general, the centrist CDS party.
There was no suggestion that any money was misappropriated for personal gain,
but M. Barrot was deemed responsible because of his seniority within the party.

However, a general amnesty covering such offences was invoked, wiping the slate
clean. M. Barrot's allies point out that the legal situation prevented an appeal
attempt to clear his name.

Mr de Rynk added: "Mr Barrot has a clean record because it was wiped clean. He
was unable to appeal against his sentence because of the amnesty and he believes
that if he had appealed he would have been cleared. That option was not
available to him because of the amnesty."

Many MEPs believe the issue should have been brought out into the open before M.
Barrot appeared before a confirmation hearing in the European Parliament. All
commissioners have to answer a questionnaire in which the matter could have been
made public. Mr Titley said: "The key is that we need maximum transparency and
he failed that test. I think both Mr Barroso and M. Barrot have to come to the
parliament and explain how we got into this situation, then the parliament can
decide what to do.

Mr Schulz, who led the opposition to Mr Buttiglione, said the issue raised
questions about "whether M. Barrot should "have disclosed and declared this
matter before the parliamentary hearing". He also said there may be implications
for relations between the Commission and the parliament in relation to a deal
struck on Thursday about when and how commissioners can be forced to quit.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               35 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 19, 2004, Friday

Euro team are liars and crooks, says Ukip

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News; International Pg. 14

LENGTH: 570 words

THE UK Independence Party caused uproar at the European Parliament yesterday,
defying a French secrecy order by revealing that France's commissioner, Jacques
Barrot, had been convicted of fraud four years ago and banned from public
office. He was later pardoned.

The furious exchange came as Euro-MPs voted overwhelmingly for the revamped
commission team of Jose Manuel Barroso, ending a constitutional crisis that has
paralysed EU machinery for the last three weeks.

The 25-strong "college" will take office for a five-year term on Monday,
chastened by its bruising power struggle with Euro-MPs. All but five vowed to
accelerate the EU integration by invoking fresh powers in the European
constitution before the treaty has been ratified.

Mr Barroso, a Maoist turned Thatcherite, was forced to withdraw his team an hour
before the final vote last month.

The fiasco was chiefly caused by Rocco Buttiglione, Italy's ultra-Catholic
nominee for justice and civil liberties, who fell foul of the European Left for
calling homosexuality a "sin" and disparaging single mothers.

Mr Buttiglione has been replaced by Franco Frattini, Italy's smooth-talking
foreign minister and a former slalom ski racer.

The Latvian nominee for the tax dossier was also sacked for Eurosceptic views
and zealously extolling the virtues of lower taxes. A Hungarian former
Communist, Laszlo Kovacs, will now run tax policy.

Having secured two scalps, the Socialist bloc switched sides yesterday, giving
the Barroso team a majority of 449, with 149 against. The British Tories split
three ways.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader in Strasbourg, stunned the chamber by calling the
new team crooks, liars, Communist lackeys and "political failures", and by
revealing that the French transport minister had been convicted by a French
court for his role in a party corruption scandal.

"In 2000, he received an eight-month suspended jail sentence in an embezzlement
case and was banned from holding elected office for two years," he said,
triggering furious protests from the floor.

Mr Farage went on to claim that the Estonian commissioner, Siim Kallas, had been
a Soviet apparatchik for 20 years and had been "convicted of providing false
information", yet was now in charge of the EU's anti-fraud campaign.

"You couldn't make it up. Would you buy a used car from this commission?" he
said.

The Barrot case involved a cast of senior politicians allied to the French
president, Jacques Chirac, in a case of alleged illegal party funding worth
pounds 2*5 million in the late 1980s and early 1990s.

Mr Chirac later pardoned Mr Barrot, making it illegal for the French media to
mention the case.

Mr Farage assumed that he had parliamentary privilege when he spoke. But Josep
Borrell, the European Parliament's new president, ordered him to retract the
remarks under threat of "legal consequences". It was unclear last night what
form of legal consequences could ensue and whether Mr Farage could be
prosecuted, since he was speaking on French soil in Strasbourg.

For Mr Barroso, yesterday's vote was the end of a gruelling ordeal that has
punctured his aura of invincibility.

Misjudging how much trouble Euro-MPs could cause him, he gave them a rare chance
to flex their muscles and assert parliamentary supremacy. The effect is a subtle
but highly significant shift in authority from the member states to the EU's
federal institutions.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               36 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 19, 2004

Grateful Barroso offers MEPs a say on EU reform

BYLINE: David Gow in Strasbourg

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 783 words


Jose Manuel Barroso, the new European commission president, offered MEPs a
powerful role in reshaping the EU's political, economic and social agenda and
redefining its relations with the world after winning resounding backing for his
team yesterday.

He repeatedly underlined the European parliament's strengthened position in the
EU's triangular power-sharing structure with governments and commission, after
MEPs gave him and his 24 colleagues a two-thirds majority - reversing the
humiliating defeat they inflicted three weeks ago, which triggered an
unprecedented institutional crisis.

The parliament voted in the reshuffled Barroso commission by 449 votes to 149
with 82 abstentions - a wider margin than the 413-251 majority the president won
at his confirmation in late July and bigger than he and his team had expected,
with the bulk of the 200-strong Socialist group switching sides to back him.

But there was uproar amid the cheering when Nigel Farage, the leader of the Ukip
MEPs, denounced the new commission, alleging that Jacques Barrot, the French
transport commissioner, had been given an eight-month suspended sentence and
barred from public office for two years in the scandal over party political
financing in France.

Mr Farage, who thought he had full parliamentary immunity, was condemned by the
leaders of the main political groups and warned he could face criminal sanctions
for slander. Josep Borrell, the parliament's president, is determined to act and
is consulting EU lawyers about options open to the parliament.

Mr Farage, denounced as the political representative of British football
hooligans, accused Mr Borrell of issuing "bullying" threats, but said he would
apologise and withdraw his remarks if they were proved to be wrong.

He said later that his party had assiduously researched the background of each
of the 25 commissioners for 10 days and had been assured by French colleagues
that "I am telling the truth and am 100% right." But he conceded he may have
breached French law because Jacques Chirac had pardoned and indemnified Mr
Barrot in a ruling that bans public reference to the alleged offences.

"I don't know if I'll be arrested by the French police when I leave here," he
said. "I don't like this parliament but I thought immunity gave one the right to
speak one's mind but now it appears it does not."

Ironically, Mr Barroso disclosed that he had initially wanted Mr Barrot, a
lawyer, to be his justice and civil liberties commissioner but had been turned
down, forcing him to turn to Rocco Buttiglione, the ultra-conservative Catholic
whose comments on homosexuality being a sin ultimately forced his resignation at
the hands of enraged MEPs.

Mr Barroso, who said his successor should have wider powers to choose his fellow
commissioners than under the current process of governments imposing a single
choice, hailed yesterday's vote as strengthening EU democracy.

Offering the parliament "positive complicity" in framing legislation and policy,
he said: "I think the political agenda of the parliament and the commission are
very, very convergent . . . I want a strong partnership but not against the
council of ministers."

Peter Mandelson, the former Labour cabinet minister and now trade commissioner,
said: "At the start I wondered whether this (crisis) would leave the parliament
empowered, the commission demoted and member states out of sorts. I don't
believe that is the outcome and we have all gained from this process.

"Parliament has found its voice and authority and public opinion will welcome
that. The commission is improved and strengthened and all governments will have
to understand they have to take more seriously in future whom they appoint to
the commission."

Martin Schulz, the Socialist group leader, said: "We have put a stop to the
trend which leaves too much power in the hands of governments and we have put
ourselves on an equal footing with heads of state and government. It's a sign of
democratic progress in Europe."

Graham Watson, the Liberal group leader, told Mr Barroso: "Today you get your
driving licence, tomorrow we start on the rules of the road." He welcomed moves
to give MEPs greater powers to demand the sacking of individual commissioners
rather than the generalised power to vote the entire commission out of office.

But Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the Greens' co-leader, attacked the Socialists and
Liberals as "tailend-Charlies" who had now handed Mr Barroso a blank cheque
after withholding support. "You have given him a majority that will allow him to
walk all over you."

Links: europa.eu.int/index-en.htm European Union

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               37 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 18, 2004

Tories back to days of Duncan Smith - poll

BYLINE: Alan Travis, Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 576 words


Michael Howard's Tory party is now as unpopular as it was in the darkest days of
Iain Duncan Smith's leadership, according to the results of a special
Guardian/ICM poll on Conservative fortunes.

The party is eight points behind Labour - the biggest gap since May 2003, when
Mr Duncan Smith was facing his summer of discontent.

Mr Howard has achieved the distinction of becoming even more unpopular than Tony
Blair in the country at large - and even less popular among Tory voters than the
prime minister is among Labour supporters.

Yet the survey also shows that Mr Howard is set to soldier on as leader until
another general election because two-thirds of his party members cannot name a
credible alternative.

The depth of the crisis facing the party is underlined by a raft of findings in
the Guardian/ICM poll based on interviews with a representative sample of 300
Conservative party members. The poll shows that:

* Most members accept they cannot win next year's expected general election;

* One in four of the members think Labour is more in tune with average voters in
the country than the Tories;

* Half the rank and file say they would vote to pull out of the European Union
and, even more worryingly for Mr Howard, 70% say that the party must toughen its
stance on Brussels or risk losing "members like them" to the UK Independence
party; and

* Despite anxieties about Mr Howard's stewardship, two-thirds of the members
have no idea of an alternative candidate to lead the party.

The regular monthly Guardian/ICM poll of the wider electorate shows Labour on
38%, eight points ahead of the Conservatives, the biggest gap on the
Guardian/ICM series since May 2003. It would be enough to see Mr Blair returned
with a Commons majority of more than 120.

The monthly ICM poll also shows that Mr Howard's popularity has continued to
slide and only 33% of the country think he is doing a good job compared with 41%
who rate Mr Blair's performance as satisfactory.

Even among his own supporters his ratings are not as good as the prime
minister's, with 30% of Tory voters dissatisfied with the job he is doing,
compared with 17% of Labour voters.

The party does not believe it can win the next election with a clear majority,
believing it will be at least two more contests before they return to power.
Nevertheless, nearly two-thirds of the party - 58% - believe Mr Howard should be
given the chance to fight a second general election.

Only 11% think he should stand down now, although 28% of Tory members think he
should go immediately after next year's expected general election.

The reason is clear enough when ICM asked party members if not Howard then who?
A remarkable 66% said they did not know who to name as an alternative leader.
William Hague was the single most popular named alternative and he is backed by
only 9%. David Davis and Oliver Letwin attracted the support of 5% or fewer.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,009 adults aged 18 and over between
November 12-14. Interviews were conducted throughout the country by telephone
and the results have been weighted to be representative of all adults. ICM also
interviewed a random sample of 300 Conservative party members by telephone
between November 8-14. ICM abides by the rules of the British Polling Council.

The future of the Conservatives, pages 12-13

Leader comment, page 27

guardian.co.uk/politics/ conservatives


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               38 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 18, 2004

Barroso heading for victory in commission vote

BYLINE: David Gow in Strasbourg

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 536 words


The new European commission will start work on Monday after its incoming
president, Jose Manuel Barroso, won the guarantee of substantial support for his
team last night by making further concessions to the European parliament.

The 732 MEPs are expected to end the institutional crisis which has crippled the
EU for three weeks by approving his 25-member commission today.

This will end a struggle that forced the president to withdraw his mark one
commission last month in the face of opposition to anti-gay Rocco Buttiglione
becoming civil liberties chief and to undertake a mini-reshuffle, with Franco
Frattini, the Italian foreign minister, taking Mr Buttiglione's place.

Mr Barroso should garner at least 430 votes in today's recorded ballot, with
senior parliamentary sources suggesting he could win considerably more,
strengthening his position after the damage to his credibility inflicted by MEPs
last month. Abstentions, including those by British Tories and French and
Italian socialists, are not counted.

The president has agreed that if MEPs carry a vote of no confidence on one of
his team he will enforce his or her resignation or at least come before
parliament to explain why he refuses to sack the rejected candidate.

This goes further than the agreement with the outgoing commission of Romano
Prodi, but falls short of a Liberal demand that a two-thirds vote of no
confidence should trigger a commissioner's sacking.

Political sources said that would have meant the parliament, which clearly has
no stomach for prolonging the power struggle, overreaching itself, but they
expect the demand to return when the next commission is chosen in 2009.

Martin Schulz, the Socialist leader, said: "This is no longer the Barroso
commission but one shaped by the parliament." He was cheered - and booed - when
he warned Mr Barroso he would be in trouble again if the commission tried to
dismantle the social gains won in the EU over the past few years.

There was uproar when Robert Kilroy-Silk, who sits for Ukip without taking the
whip, denounced the commission for containing Peter Mandelson, the trade and
industry secretary, as Britain's sole representative - a man "synonymous with
lies, deceit, evasion and spin". The presiding Speaker replied: "Nobody needs to
listen to slander and insults, not even from Mr Kilroy-Silk of the UK."

Mr Barroso faces immediate trouble over his determination and that of the Dutch
government to retain Neelie Kroes as competition commissioner despite the
prospect of conflicts of interest caused by her extensive boardroom experience.

Ms Kroes, who has excluded herself from handling cases involving firms on whose
boards she served, would, commission lawyers say, have been forced to stand
aside in just 35 of 5,000 cases handled by her predecessor, Mario Monti.

But Monica Frassoni, the Greens' co-leader, told Mr Barroso she was "very
dangerous for the credibility of your commission" and cited three cases - a
cartel in the bitumen industry, new competition rules for shipping, and
anti-trust charges against British mobile phone operator MMO 2 - from which she
would have to stand aside at once.

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               39 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 18, 2004, Thursday

MEPS TO APPROVE BARROSO'S COMMISSION

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 636 words


AFTER THREE unprecedented, weeks of crisis, the new European Commission will
finally be approved by MEPs today in a vote that will determine whether the
incoming president, Jose Manuel Barroso, has restored his authority.

Mr Barroso, who was forced to sack two would-be commissioners and reshuffle a
third, offered MEPs another concession over the circumstances under which a
commissioner can be sacked yesterday.

The revamped team is certain to get the go-ahead to take up their posts next
Monday. The scale of the parliamentary majority in favour of the new team will
reveal whether the debacle has damaged Mr Barroso permanently. The vote marks
the end of a saga that began when Rocco Buttiglione, Italy's
commissioner-designate, shocked MEPs by describing homosexuality as "a sin".

The European Parliament flexed its muscles, surprising its critics by making it
clear that it would veto the entire Commission unless there were changes.

While the crisis has strengthened the parliament, it has raised questions about
Mr Barroso's political skills. The urbane, multi-lingual, former premier of
Portugal allocated the jobs, and was slow to assuage MEPs' concerns, allowing
the crisis to escalate. His authority damaged, Mr Barroso will be hoping for a
large majority today. He will want to get at least the 413 votes that he secured
when he was approved personally as president in July.

MEPs scored a final, small-scale, victory over their powers to get a
commissioner sacked. In a resolution, to be approved today, they will demand
that the Commission president agrees to sack any commissioner who loses the
confidence of parliament - or appears in the house to justify a refusal to do
so.

EU treaties do not give parliament the right to dismiss a commissioner and many
governments oppose giving the legislature power to remove national nominees. Mr
Barroso said he would repeat an undertaking given by his predecessor, Romano
Prodi, that he would "seriously consider" asking a commissioner to resign if
parliament withdrew its confidence. He also agreed to appear before the
parliament to justify that decision, thereby accepting the terms of the motion.

MEPs say this marks an advance for the parliament because, if they were
unsatisfied with his response, they could move a motion of censure. But it does
not give them an automatic right to fire a commissioner and does not change the
balance of institutional power.

Most MEPs are happy to accept the new team after two countries agreed to replace
their commissioners. Franco Frattini, Italy's Foreign Minister, will take over
the job once destined for Mr Buttiglione as commissioner for justice and home
affairs. Latvia's Ingrida Udre is being replaced with Andris Piebalgs. Hungary's
Laszlo Kovacs, whose lack of knowledge about the energy brief he was originally
allocated was exposed in parliamentary hearings, will still be coming to
Brussels. He will be shuffled to taxation.

Martin Schulz, leader of the Socialist bloc in the parliament, said there
remained concerns about Neelie Kroes, the Dutch commissioner-designate for
competition whose links with business have led to claims of a conflict of
interest.

Monica Frattini, co-leader of the Greens, said Ms Kroes was "very dangerous for
the credibility of the Commission" and claimed that she could have to stand back
from a significant number of cases. She also attacked the fact that the justice
portfolio remains in the hands of an ally of the Italian premier, Silvio
Berlusconi. Mr Berlusconi has, she said, "been threatened with eight years in
jail for corruption" in a legal case.

The maverick UK Independence Party MEP, Robert Kilroy-Silk, said Peter
Mandelson, the British commissioner-designate, was "synonymous with lies,
deceit, evasion and spin".

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               40 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 17, 2004

The problems From lack of trust to the tide of history

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 557 words


In the shadow of smart new plasma screens which beam every imaginable television
news channel, disciplined young Tories are toiling away seven days a week in the
newly renamed Conservative Campaign Headquarters.

With the general election months away, Tories are full of praise for the slick
operation which is being masterminded by Lynton Crosby, a plain-speaking
Australian who was the brains behind John Howard's four successive election
victories.

Beyond this fervour, many Tories fear they are once again heading for an
uncomfortable encounter with the voters when Britain goes to the polls.

Frontbenchers are asking searching questions about the party's chances of
reconnecting with mainstream voters.

Where MPs were once able to blame their leader - William Hague was too rightwing
or sounded too strange, Iain Duncan Smith simply failed to make it on to the
radar screen - many Tories now wonder whether there are deeper reasons for their
party's failure.

"Michael Howard has ensured that we will survive as a party," one member of the
shadow cabinet said. "But it is not coming right yet."

Anthony Seldon, who recently published a history of the Conservative party,
believes the tide of history is simply running against the Tories. Tony Blair is
a political "genius" who is repeating the success of Lord Palmerston, the 19th
century Liberal prime minister who helped keep the Tories out of power for more
than two decades.

Mr Seldon says the party needs to recreate its two best years since the war:
1951, when Winston Churchill finally won an election, and 1979, when Margaret
Thatcher threw out Labour and the postwar consensus. But one key ingredient is
missing: Labour has not messed up the economy.

Strategists at Tory HQ can provide a sheaf of statistics to prove that Mr Seldon
is being too pessimistic. Mr Howard won the European and local elections in
June. While similar feats were achieved by William Hague, June marked a moment
when Labour became the only governing party in modern British history to come
third in a national election.

The UK Independence party, which looked like it could derail the Tories with its
clear pledge to abandon the EU, is "imploding". The Tories cite the eminent
psephologists Rallings and Thrasher, who have declared that the Ukip bubble has
burst after Robert Kilroy-Silk spoke of his determination to "kill" the Tories.

Even dire byelection results contain hopeful signs, the strategists say.
Leicester South, where the Tories sank to third place in a seat they held in the
80s, was not a complete disaster. Eager Tory staff did a "box count" and found
that in two suburban wards the party performed better than in the 2001 general
election.

But the party faces a long slog, well beyond the general election, for two
reasons, according to Tories interviewed by the Guardian. Trust in Tony Blair
has dropped so sharply that he is taking politicians from across the spectrum
down with him. "We are suffering collateral damage," moaned one shadow minister.

The second reason: failure to paint a convincing picture of what the Tories
would do in office. "I hope people are getting a sense that we are reasonable
and practical," one member of the shadow cabinet said, but added: "In conveying
that we have not got as far as I would have liked."


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               41 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 17, 2004, Wednesday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 750 words


Parliament's men in tights won't go down without a fight

After taking the blame for recent lapses in security at the House of Commons,
the so-called "Men in Tights" have gone on the offensive against the very MPs
who are trying to abolish them.

The Serjeant at Arms, Sir Michael Cummins (pictured, in full finery) - who will
shortly be relieved of his responsibility for security at Westminster - is
attempting to prevent politicians from "muscling in" on state occasions in order
to gain free publicity.

In a prickly letter sent to Labour's Chief Whip, Hilary Armstrong, the
beleaguered official accuses MPs of exploiting the State Opening of Parliament,
by refusing to sit where they are supposed to.

According to tradition, MPs must remain in the Commons until summoned by Black
Rod. However, in recent years they've been hanging around in the Members' Lobby
before joining the procession to the House of Lords.

"Apparently, this gives them a better chance of getting on TV," I'm told. "Sir
Michael has decided to flex his muscles and put an end to it. He's being a bit
pathetic, but then so are the MPs who want to get their faces on telly."

The letter was brought to the attention of a recent meeting of the Parliamentary
Committee, which includes Armstrong, Tony Blair and John Prescott. They are now
expected to read the riot act to publicity-hungry MPs, prior to the next State
Opening on Tuesday.

Janet starts a rumble in the jungle

READERS MAY wish to join me in bidding a fond farewell to Janet Street-Porter,
who is off to Melbourne to take part in the latest series of I'm a Celebrity ...
Get me Out of Here.

If nothing else, my colleague, left, is likely to stir things up a treat in the
Australian bush, where the reality TV series is being made.

"I'm flying out later than all the other people on the show, because I don't
want to spend time with the sort of people I wouldn't want to know anyway," she
explains, cheerily.

JS-P's fellow contestants include Sophie Anderton ("has she read any books?"),
Paul Burrell ("I'll get him to help with my washing"), and the fallen teen idol
Brian Harvey.

But unlike previous contestants, she's unlikely to find love on the show: "I
would rather sleep with a cockroach than with any of that lot," she adds.

Silk gloves for Kilroy

PIERS MORGAN and Amanda Platell (pictured) didn't exactly put Robert Kilroy-Silk
to the sword on their political TV show at the weekend. It's a shame, since UKIP
were invited to brief the duo and had suggested some questions which (I am
assured) would have bought old Orange Gob to the boil.

"Channel Four told us they wanted train-wreck television, but they didn't use
our questions, so it ended up being a fawning interview," says a party source.

Over to Morgan & Platell's producers: "We asked a number of people to help in
research, but some of the issues that UKIP suggested didn't fit with the tone of
the show."

Won't get fooled again

PETE TOWNSHEND has scrapped his long-awaited book on child sex abuse.

Two years ago, the Who guitarist - who was arrested for accessing child
pornography on the internet - said he'd been "researching" a memoir on the
subject. Shortly afterwards, he was placed on the sex offenders register for
five years. And now that very book - provisional title: A Different Bomb - has
been abandoned.

"This is the book I spoke about that was in preparation when I was arrested,"
reads an explanation, on his personal website. "It's about the impact and danger
of child porn on the internet: essays about and interviews with casualties of
abuse or survivors like myself. I have shelved it. I can't venture publicly into
this area again."

Believe it or not, Neil and Christine Hamilton have missed an opportunity to
cash in on what remains of their dignity. The couple were due to open the
Erotica exhibition - the "adult entertainment" industry's annual trade fair - at
Olympia on Thursday, but have suddenly cancelled, following a disagreement over
their fee.

"We were about to sign a contract, when we were told they wanted more cash than
we'd originally budgeted for," says an organiser. "We've decided to spend that
money on extra champagne instead."

Neil, who was to have donned leather bondage gear for the event, has few
regrets. "We're going up to Sheffield instead, but I don't want to comment on
things that we aren't doing," he says.

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               42 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 17, 2004, Wednesday

Making a killing

BYLINE: Martin Waller

SECTION: Business; 56

LENGTH: 126 words


THE man who tried to buy the Ofex junior stock market last month is bringing his
club for entrepreneurs to London. Andy Moore, a colourful Birmingham businessman
who is also on the national executive committee of the UK Independence Party,
runs Zyzygy, the confusingly named vehicle that made a hastily rebuffed offer
for Ofex.

The Entrepreneurs Club, which brings together companies and prospective
investors, has been going for four years, but next Tuesday's event is the first
in London.

Moore has been a director of 76 companies in all, five of which went bust.

Each one has to be listed whenever he embarks on a new venture, with no statute
of limitations for the failed ones, he complains. "It's worse than being a
murderer."


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               43 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 15, 2004, Monday

The north-east 'no' vote to assembly could be bad news for Blair, says James
Frayne

BYLINE: By James Frayne

SECTION: City Pg. 36

LENGTH: 888 words

THOSE who oppose the euro, the European Constitution and further integration in
the European Union should be greatly encouraged by the result in the North East
referendum. An anti-Constitution campaign already has many advantages over the
anti-Assembly campaign and it is difficult to see how Tony Blair could win a
referendum over Europe.

The scale of the "no" vote - 78-22 against a regional assembly - suggests that a
big victory was sure from the start. It was not. The Yes campaign had years to
prepare, a far larger budget, the BBC and newspapers on their side, state
support, and as late as August, ICM polls predicted a 2-1 "yes" vote. However,
as the campaign began properly in mid-September and people focused on it, the
polls moved quickly in our favour.

The first and most important reason is that our message was simple, believed,
and we stuck to it. Everything we did or said was aimed at delivering our three
key messages: vote no to higher council tax; vote no to more politicians; vote
no to a white elephant that doesn't have the power to help the North East. The
three were summed up in the slogan "Politicians talk, We Pay", which tapped into
the widespread contempt for modern politics.

In contrast, the Yes campaign focused, like the pro-euro campaign, on showing
off a "historic coalition" and attacking the enemy as "Tory" and extreme. This
meant the two campaigns diverged widely in strategy. The Yes campaign had a
four-minute documentary-style film designed to show who was voting yes -
celebrities, nursing unions, etc - saying "be proud, be positive". Our broadcast
was split into four mini-ads, each delivering a very simple message based on
cost, politicians, and the lack of powers being proposed.

This difference in strategy also showed in the campaigns' stunts. We burned
pounds 1m of fake pounds 50 notes to show how much money would be wasted; we
unveiled a huge blank cheque; we "began construction" on a new Assembly building
by hiring JCBs and cranes and we took our 15ft high inflatable white elephant
around the region. The Yes campaign were more concerned about showing what nice
people they were by unveiling things like a cultural manifesto promising more
rights for artists.

We did not fight on their ground. We did not bother with offering "alternatives"
to the Assembly and we never fought on party politics. In the North East, any
suggestion that this was a Tory versus Labour battle would have been a problem.
The Labour Party sensed this. Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott personally
unveiled ads attacking our campaign as being "run by Southern Tories";
Chancellor Gordon Brown also parroted the same attacks, as did the once
independent Ray Mallon. Our excellent campaign spokesmen - made up of North East
business people - just carried on delivering our messages.

The campaigners against the Constitution will be starting from a much stronger
position. They are already significantly ahead in the polls; they already have
strong business support; they will be at least as well funded as the Yes
campaign (though the abuse of state power will be a major threat). They will
also have more obvious cross-party support and the Tories have wisely made clear
that while they would obviously play a prominent part in the campaign, they
would not run it (a crucial distinction). Just as the pro-Assembly campaign
could not persuade people of its merits, the dynamics of EU politics suggest
Blair will not be able to persuade people that the EU is a success that ought to
have more powers

However, there are a couple of things that did cause us problems in the North
East that need to be addressed. The BBC's coverage was slanted to help the Yes
campaign. It undermined our launch by linking it to the BNP and, at London's
direction, insisted that if Mr Prescott was speaking for Yes, then the BBC would
only take a Tory or UKIP figure to represent No. Given that Mr Prescott's
message was that it was a party political battle, this obviously helped Yes and
showed that the BBC would try to shape perceptions of the official No campaign -
leading Labour politicians clearly had to be protected from non-political
opponents. This is obviously unacceptable and has major implications for a
referendum on Europe.

The problems with the Electoral Commission are too numerous to go into here but
nobody should be under any illusion that the commission exists to police the
conduct at referenda. There was rarely anyone available that could give timely
advice on the conduct of Government ministers. When we complained to the
Electoral Commission, it said there was nothing it could do, that it assumed the
Government had taken legal advice, and that anyway there was no enforcement
mechanism to deal with any illegal action. The anti-Constitution campaign will
need to work out how it will issue legal challenges during a referendum when
similar problems inevitably occur.

The biggest challenge the opponents of EU integration have is the development of
an alternative vision to the status quo relationship with the EU and how to
sequence its development with a pure anti-Constitution campaign that may not
happen.

James Frayne is Director of Research at The New Frontiers Foundation and was
Campaign Director for the official No campaign in the North East referendum.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               44 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 15, 2004, Monday

Future direction for regional government and assemblies

SECTION: Features; 14

LENGTH: 172 words


From Mr Damian Hockney

Sir, Your leading article (November 10) refers to "complex layers of elected
government laid down over many centuries". In fact, the complex layers are a
recent phenomenon.

We used to be governed by two layers of government -Parliament in Westminster,
and local and county councils. This system of government was relatively cheap,
easily understood, and crucially gave the electorate democratic control over the
politicians.

The addition of European and regional tiers of government plus countless
quangos, agencies and publicly funded non-governmental organisations has
destroyed this delicate balance. Further, a huge percentage of all legislation
originates with the EU, cannot be rejected by Parliament and is implemented
through secondary legislation or by agencies. No wonder the electorate is
deserting the polling booths in droves.

Yours faithfully, DAMIAN HOCKNEY (Leader, UK Independence Party Group, London
Assembly), City Hall, The Queen's Walk, SE1 2AA.

November 10.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               45 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                               November 14, 2004

TOUGH ON THE VOTERS, TOUGH ON THE CAUSES OF VOTING

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 877 words


With only 140 shopping days until the UK general election all betting is back on
May 5 Labour is already choosing its weapons. This time, the battle wont be
about schools, hospitals, tax or even Iraq: its about security. But not as we
know it.

Labours new thinking, informed by the American presidential election and
countless opinion polls, is that security must be redefined to mean fighting not
only terrorists, but also street crime, illegal immigration and poor policing.

So when the Queen comes to Westminster to make her annual speech, which lays out
the years lawmaking schedule, her words will be crafted by her government to
send a subliminal message to the hang em and flog em tendency.

After two weeks reading the runes of the American presidential election, Alan
Milburn Labours general election supremo has come up with a theme: a nation
which felt at war found John Kerry, the Democrat candidate, unconvincing on
security. To compound his problem, he had nothing aspirational to say nothing to
match the Republicans lifestyle message of being for the family, personal
freedom, community and low-government. Kerry, in short, lacked mission and
muscle.

So Labours campaign is to be given plenty of both. The mission part is still in
development: right now, it means declaring Labour the party of affordable
housing, the asset-owning democracy the opportunity society and so on. But
injecting muscle means addressing the specific British security problem. Its not
just about feeling secure against terrorism, but also feeling protected from
muggers, noisy neighbours, graffiti artists, louts, riff-raff and immigrants.

Its crude to lump them together, but this is exactly the link made in France,
Austria and The Netherlands when voters ushered in centr-eright governments.
When asylum and crime become synonymous, the centr-eleft usually loses. Hence
the Queens Speech will be loaded with legislation to address such fears, from
compulsory identification cards (to assuage immigration concerns) and new powers
to target louts engaged in low-level, but persistent crime.

Each bill will cause controversy as it goes through parliament, providing
suitable background noise in the run-up to a spring election. David Blunkett,
the bombastic home secretary, will duly beat his chest. The more authoritarian
and out-of-control Blunkett sounds, the happier Labour election planners will
be. Tough talk is needed to disguise lack of tough action which is noticed by a
chunk of the electorate whose vote is proving wildly unpredictable.

Take the UK Independence Party which, five months ago, collected 27% of the vote
in the European Parliament elections. A party of nobodies, whose platform was
anti-asylum and anti-Brussels, mopped up a quarter of the popular vote. Their
secret weapon was Robert Kilroy-Silk, whose chat show skills made him a
dangerously effective populist. But hes now quit the party, after his failed
attempt to lead it, and support for UKIP is disintegrating. Labour and the
Tories are picking up results which dont make sense. The Conservative figures
suggest the party is eight percentage points ahead of Labour in 165 marginal
seats, an implausibly strong chance of victory. Research landing at 10 Downing
Street shows a chasm between people who identify themselves as Labour voters and
people who intend to vote Labour if an election were held tomorrow. It might be
the war or pensions or migration but some 3.5m Labour supporters feel loyal to
the party but unable to vote for Tony Blair as prime minister this time round.
They may have lent their vote to UKIP last June and may lend it to the Tories
now.Opinion polls are proving increasingly unreliable. Research in the
referendum for devolution in North East England suggested a narrow government
defeat: the end result was thr-eeto-one defeat. And this when the trade unions,
the Confederation of British Industry and local politicians were arguing for it.
The political establishment is aghast: often, voting behaviour is quite
different to voter identif cation.Something is up.

Labours gravest threat is its dismayed, anti-war voters who will use abstention
as protest or choose someone else. Voter turnout can have a huge effect in
Britain. At the 2001 general election, Blair won a second landslide with fewer
votes than beaten John Major got in 1997. In 2001, for the first time,
abstentions outnumbered votes for the winners. When abstainers venture back to
the voting booth, the waters are muddied again. A surge in turnout confounded
exit polls in the American presidential election: similar potential exists here.

If Liberal Democrats secure the anti-war Labour vote, this could actually help
Blair because seven of every eight LibDem target seats are held by the
Conservatives. But the LibDem resurgence is concentrated in the North, where it
could split the Labour vote and create new paths for the Tories in thr-eeway
marginal seats. For all parties, the crystal ball is infuriatingly cloudy.

One things for sure: Labour has not reserved any billboard space for December,
ruling out any prospect of a February election. So theres months for Labour to
sound tough on crime and hope its message is the right one.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2004 Sunday Business Group

                               46 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 14, 2004, Sunday

Opinion poles

BYLINE: Paul Donovan

SECTION: Features; Culture; 13

LENGTH: 539 words


What's Wrong with Gay Math? asks a documentary on Radio 4 this Friday. (Answer:
not enough straight lines.) As you might infer from the absence of an "s", it is
set in America, with Paul Heiney reporting on New York's contentious Harvey Milk
High, "the world's first lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender school". The
BBC, mindful of opinion polls showing how many Americans are returning to
traditional family values -reinforced by the November 2 elections, in which
same-sex unions were on the ballot in 11 states and rejected in every one -hears
from opponents of the school as well as its supporters.

Balance has never been so needed nor so breached, if recent adjudications are
any guide. The BBC has just revealed that it has upheld complaints against
several pre-senters for comments they made earlier this year. They include Radio
2's Sarah Kennedy, for attacking gov- ernment policies on health, transport and
Iraq; Jan Ravens, for claiming, when hosting Pick of the Week, that the UK
Independence Party is motivated by fear of ethnic contamination; and BBC
London's Jon Gaunt, for saying the police should have shot the two Greenpeace
protestors who climbed Big Ben.

Different shows, different stations. But what they have in common is the
quagmire into which presenters can fall when tempted to express their personal
views. The starkest recent example is Barbara Plett, the BBC's West Bank
correspondent, who said on From Our Own Correspondent (FOOC) two weeks ago that
when Yasser Arafat was lifted by helicopter out of Ramallah, she "started to
cry, without warning", and went on to analyse the reasons for that. Many
complained that this was pro-Palestinian propaganda: the Israeli embassy has
written a letter of protest. Initially defending it on Feedback, the BBC then
said: "On further consideration, we felt that particular aspect of her report
was misjudged."

What they also have in common is that the background to these complaints has
been a noted lack of balance in the past. Plett's dispatch, which is actually
rather critical of Arab governments, probably attracted extra complaints because
of the BBC's supposed anti- Israeli bias. Kennedy's remarks may have attracted
attention because she has a track record of making outspoken but flaky comments
(she once suggested black people make good runners because they are used to
being chased by lions). Gaunt is famous for his humourless rabble-rousing, and
his purpose in life is doubtless to show the BBC has right-wing as well as
left-wing presenters.

The lesson is simple, though often difficult to put into practice. If a
programme can be balanced internally between conflicting opinions, as the one on
Harvey Milk High promises, it should be. If it cannot be, then the series it is
in should strive for balance over time. If that, too, is impossible, the network
itself should be balanced between different series and different viewpoints. But
it would be sad if contributors to FOOC, a really valuable and interesting
programme, were to feel that from now on, they must never admit to tears. To
encourage them to be dishonest would be a much greater misjudgment than anything
Plett has done.

paul.donovan@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Radio waves

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               47 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           November 14, 2004, Sunday

A damn close-run election

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 351 words

Matthew d'Ancona says that the American conservatives "sweep all before them".
So why can't the Tories (Comment, November 7)? Actually the presidential
contest, like Waterloo, was a damn close-run thing. With 49 states declared, the
candidates were 264 versus 262 in Electoral College seats. It all hung on Ohio.
If it had swung Democrat, we would now be hailing President Kerry. That was not
a landslide.

Mr d'Ancona goes on to excoriate Liam Fox for saying some constituencies in the
UK are just not Tory "natural territory". But the masterly Karl Rove knew damn
well that half the US states are foregone conclusions and that save in a
landslide situation a dozen would prove to be the vital "swing states". He
compares the 51 per cent of Americans who voted Bush with the "just above 30 per
cent" (33 actually) where the Tories stand in the polls. This is chalk and
cheese.

Here in the UK we have the UUP, DUP and Sinn Fein, Welsh Nats, Scots Nats,
Greens, Respect and UKIP, plus a few real weirdos. Between them they take 10 per
cent. So the three main parties divvy up 90 per cent. But the Lib-Dems take
about 20 per cent. So the two giants share 70 per cent. On which basis, 33
versus 37 is not so crazy after all. The first-past-the-post system can be
extremely quirky. If you win 10 constituencies with a majority of 10,000 in
each, that is nice. If you win 100 with a majority of 1,000, that is the same
number of votes. But who forms the government?

Mr d'Ancona refers to the "Tory base" as being infinitely smaller than the
Republican base. Actually, no. John Major inherited an overall majority of 101.
He bequeathed a New Labour majority of 175. He lost well over 200 seats. Under
Margaret Thatcher the "Tory base" existed in 350 seats. Some people think that
if the Tories won back 100, Blair would still have a majority of 65 of his
present 165. Not so. We would have a hung parliament. And if the Lib-Dems
continue to slice into Labour majorities (check Ogmore, Brent, Hodge Hill,
Leicester South and Hartlepool) that could easily happen.

Frederick Forsyth

Hertford, Hertfordshire

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               48 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           November 14, 2004, Sunday

The peerless Kilroy-Silk

BYLINE: By TIM WALKER

SECTION: News; Mandrake; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 155 words

ROBERT KILROY-SILK doesn't believe that honours should be handed out willy
nilly. He told readers of his newspaper column that he took particular exception
to the peerage bestowed upon Lord Ahmed, a Muslim councillor in Rotherham, in
1996. "Why?" he asked rhetorically. "What are his achievements, his
internationally-renowned accomplishments?"

In his typically self-deprecating way, Kilroy-Silk last night told Channel 4's
excellent Morgan and Platell programme that he had himself turned down a
knighthood and a peerage. "All I ever wanted was the letters MP after my name,"
he said. "I'm not interested in a title, what I'm interested in is power."

The most likely way for UKIP's on-off champion to have been offered a title was
if the Labour Party had nominated him for one during or just after his time as
one of its MPs. Strangely, a Labour official tells me: "We didn't offer any such
thing. There's no way . . ."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               49 of 74 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 13, 2004, Saturday

KILROY'S FIGHT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 22 words


FORMER TV star Robert Kilroy-Silk yesterday vowed to fight for the leadership of
the UK Independence party despite resigning.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               50 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 12, 2004

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 476 words


TONY Blair isn't accompanied by wife Cherie on his tenth visit to George W Bush.
Before the November 2 presidential election she criticised the President over
the legal rights of Guantanamo Bay prisoners. Prior to the PM's first Washington
visit in 2001, Mrs Blair convinced Al Gore was cheated of the Presidency
suggested that the most suitable present from them would be a standard-issue
Downing Street pen.

CABLE & Wireless executive Elizabeth Truss, 29, who faces selectors tonight at
Broxbourne, the Hertfordshire Tory seat of retiring Dame Marion Roe, was a
Liberal Democrat at Oxford, giving passionate republican speeches. She said in
1994: 'We don't believe people should be born to rule.' Miss Truss now says: 'It
was a youthful blunder.'

PRINCESS Grace of Monaco, pictured in her prime, would have been 75 today.

Killed 22 years ago in a tragic car accident that remains shrouded in mystery,
her legend endures, although every Grace Kelly film is banned in Monaco on the
orders of her husband, Prince Rainier, who insisted on her retirement from the
screen and vetoed every proposed comeback. Her tomb in the Cathedral of St
Nicholas, Monte Carlo, refers to her not as princess, but 'uxor principis' wife
of the prince.

HAVING resigned the UKIP whip in the European Parliament, Robert Kilroy-Silk is
obliged to sit with a colourful group of unaffiliated MEPs including
Right-wingers such as France's Jean Marie Le Pen, Austria's Jorg Haider and
Italy's Alessandra Mussolini. Says UKIP leader Roger Knapman, whom RKS failed to
oust: 'I think we're a bit too common for him.'

SVEN Goran Eriksson's paramour Nancy Dell 'Olio is furious about being included
in Tatler's Little Black Book of eligible dates.

'How can I be single when I am long-term engaged to Sven?' she cries. Her
inclusion is merely a mischievous reminder of lively Sven's various dalliances.

THE Sun's editor, Rebekah Wade, is leading a party of senior staff to raffish
Torremolinos, in Spain, for a 'chav' knees-up with readers. Deputy political
editor George Pascoe Watson, in checked Burberry cap and chunky male jewellery,
emulates footballer Wayne Rooney while Miss Wade essays a velour tracksuit a la
Britney Spears. Are Sun readers being laughed with or laughed at?

TRAVELLING by plane, Land Rover and canoe, Stanley Johnson Tory candidate for
Teignbridge and father of priapic Henley MP Boris visits a remote tribe, the
Yawanawa, on the Brazil-Peru border this weekend. He says their existence is
threatened by a road-building scheme. 'Some people would like to see the
Yawanawa obliterated,' he says. Same goes for the Johnson tribe.

TYPE 'Fallujah' into the Google internet search box and you get news of the
fierce battle there. You also get 'Flights to Fallujah Great Rates, Check out
Now!' Just the place for a Christmas break.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               51 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 10, 2004, Wednesday

Gambling tycoon gave pounds 50,000 to Labour

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News; Politics Pg. 12

LENGTH: 459 words

LABOUR'S links with the gambling industry were under renewed scrutiny last night
after it emerged that a prominent betting tycoon gave the party pounds 50,000 in
July.

Peter Coates, who owns a chain of betting shops across Cheshire and the Midlands
and is a director of Bet365.com, an internet bookmaker, has given several large
donations to the party.

The latest donation was made public in the quarterly accounts of the Electoral
Commission, which monitors donations to political parties.

Mr Coates, a former chairman of Stoke City Football Club, pledged pounds 100,000
to Labour in 1999 and has also given substantial donations through companies
that he controls.

The Government is currently embroiled in controversy over the Gambling Bill,
which opens the way to a new generation of super casinos with unlimited slot
machine jackpots. Critics have claimed the legislation will lead to an increase
in gambling.

Labour received pounds 3.7 million in donations between July and September this
year, just ahead of the Conservatives' total of pounds 3.5 million. The Liberal
Democrats received pounds 915,523 and the UK Independence Party pounds 175,576.

Hans Rausing, described as Britain's wealthiest individual after selling his
Tetra Pak packaging company for pounds 4.5 billion, topped the list of donations
to the Tories with a gift of pounds 198,000 in July. Labour's total was largely
made up of donations from the big trade unions, who gave both to its head office
and to individual constituencies.

Liam Fox, the Conservative Party's co-chairman, said that in the past quarter
more than 80 per cent of Labour's funding came from the trade unions, which
showed they were "tightening their grip" on the party.

"The Government has already caved into union demands for more regulation and
bureaucracy," Dr Fox said.

"Labour cares more and more about the unions and less and less about the
voters."

The Labour Party denied last night that a pounds 50,000 donation it received
from Mr Coates had influenced the Gambling Bill now going through Parliament.

A Labour Party spokesman said: "Peter Coates is a regular donor to the Labour
Party so there is nothing out of the ordinary about this donation.

"It is clearly being made because Mr Coates is a supporter of the Labour Party
and for no other reason."

He added: "Mr Coates has never sought to influence policy as a result of any
donation.

"As far as we are aware, he has never met any minister or political adviser in
connection with the Gambling Bill, nor is there any suggestion that he has ever
sought such a meeting."

Party officials said that Mr Coates was involved in an online gambling company.
The Gambling Bill would regulate online gambling for the first time.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               52 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 10, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Social justice is the moral value that matters here: Labour
must persuade its lost voters what the party still stands for

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1153 words


As dust settles on the American election, the great global groan of despair has
subsided and the world is left to consider what to do now. Tony Blair will
tomorrow be the first foreign leader to be greeted by the victorious president.
As he surveys the scene, what political lessons does he see in Bush's win?

The parties here are up to their elbows in the entrails of the US result. What
does it mean? What can they learn? New US electioneering gizmos fly across the
ocean - but what of the ideas? The Atlantic never felt wider, middle America
never more foreign. Yet there are signs that both the main parties could forget
that. If they do, each is in danger of drawing precisely the wrong message.

Start with the Tories, frantically grasping for a taste of that Bush success. In
the last week they have been bombarded with an excited barrage of bad advice
from their own press and from many on their own benches. Morals! That's the
winning ticket! The exit poll for CNN claimed that "moral values" came top as
the most popular reason for voting for Bush. Let the Daily Mail's March of the
Moral Majority stand for most of the acres of dangerous advice to Michael Howard
in Tory press.

It wasn't, they said, the war, jobs or terror. "No, the decisive issue - one
that reduces our chattering classes to utter incredulity - was the question of
moral values." It was "the values of family and faith and his stand on gay
marriage, abortion and stem cell research. So is there a message here for our
own Conservative party?. . . Despite the BBC's constant undermining of
traditional morality, there are still values that are deeply held by the quiet
majority in this country. They abhor the politically correct liberal consensus
that condones drug-taking, the absence of discipline and structure in schools,
free-for-all contraception for children and the offer of abortion for young
girls without their parents being told. This is a wonderful opportunity for the
Tories. If they can find the language and the leadership to fill this vacuum,
anything is possible."

Yesterday the civil partnerships bill bounced gaily through the Commons. Senior
Tories, such as Edward Leigh, chairman of the public accounts committee, was
among those urging his party to use this as Bush did. But out there in the
country there was no pipsqueak of objection to allowing gays the same tax and
inheritance rights as married couples. Moral politics don't play in Britain -
not "moral" in the Mail sense, anyway. The abortion debate is long over except
among a religious few. Stopping contraception for the young goes nowhere either:
preventing teenage motherhood is the priority. Stem-cell research is where
Britain scores at US expense. Remember Back to Basics? The editor of the Mail
would make a fine Lord Raglan, ordering a valiant but doomed charge of the Tory
brigade down the far right valley to certain political death. Bush was not for
moral values at all - only for bigotry, fear and prejudice.

But how might an English version of the Bush campaign look? It might run
together asylum, crime, terror, aliens and Muslims into a rightwing brew, as
John Howard did in Australia: 80% of voters still say Labour is too soft on
asylum. An English version of Bush jingoism might fight off Ukip with an
out-of-Europe stand. It might forget Theresa May's brutally honest warning and
be the really nasty party. But William Hague tried that in the final throes of
defeat last time, and it didn't work.

Wiser Tory heads, looking to the election after next, see they have not yet
begun their journey to reclaim authentic pre-Thatcher conservative virtues: not
bogus "morals" and extremism but seriousness, solidity and electability. Once
they were the real-world practical party. Now they are still far adrift from
mainstream modern England where people use public services and "family values"
isn't a weird code for sex, but means helping women juggle children and jobs.
What's more, say wiser Tories, "morals" didn't win it for Bush. Only 22% gave
that as their reason, while 62% gave more obvious answers - the economy, terror,
Iraq and healthcare. Besides, Bush, this wartime incumbent, only just won.

Over on the Labour side, some apparatchiks also sprang to precisely the wrong
conclusion from America. Some said it proves the world is going rightwards:
ignore it at our peril. Kerry, they said, allowed himself to be pushed too far
off centre ground. He let them tag him as a dangerous Boston liberal, that's why
he lost. Let it be a reminder to New Labour never to let the enemy take the
sacred middle ground. No change, steady-as-she-goes and when in doubt, lean
rightwards.

The irony is that what Labour needs now is a taste of the Bush clarity and
conviction that the Tories should eschew. Suddenly there are some surprising key
election planners swinging around to this view, Alan Milburn among them. He
points out that there are 40-45% of voters who identify themselves as
essentially Labour people, but some 10% will not go out and vote Labour. Winning
them back is the name of the game. A Labour version of Back to Basics must
persuade its lost voters that despite Iraq and all the perennial disappointments
the left is heir to, the party still stands for the same values - above all, for
social justice.

Yesterday Alan Milburn signalled a change of direction. No more in-your-face
privatising. No more heading the Tories off by occupying their space. Instead he
was rediscovering Labour values, echoing Gordon Brown in language and content.
At a conference of the Institute for Public Policy Research, he picked up
Professor John Hill's alarming new figures about the dramatic growth in
inequality and he laid out a programme for fairness, social mobility and getting
assets to those with none.

He did not, of course, say anything about the spiralling out-of-control wealth
at the top - and it may take a genuine act of boldness on taxes and inequality
to lure back recalcitrant Labour voters. Also, we are well used from time to
time to hearing Blair, Brown and others make these rousing speeches - sincerely
meant - but only spoken to safe thinktank coteries and conferences of the
like-minded. What matters is finding a language of social justice to persuade
the wider country that fairness is the value to vote for. That means taking this
message to the City or the CBI next time. It needs to be painted on the battle
buses and put up-front in the campaign. Or will it somehow slip off the agenda
when it comes to David Frost's sofa or that key Sunday Times interview? Milburn
seemed to be reaching for a universal language, experimenting with slogans to
get these ideas out into middle England. Fairness is a deep-rooted British
value, he says. So, as election supremo, we wait to see if can he turn such talk
into Labour's main campaign battle-flag.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               53 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 10, 2004

Brown hints he still hopes to be PM: Chancellor sees personal role in shaping
destiny of country

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 592 words


Gordon Brown flagged up his enduring ambition to succeed Tony Blair as prime
minister last night when he spoke of the need for Britain to acquire a "stronger
sense of destiny" - and his determination to help shape it.

In an interview with the BBC, the chancellor managed to sidestep familiar
questions about the Labour leadership while making it plain that he is thinking
of the "difficult long-term choices" the country faces.

Asked directly about the succession, Mr Brown said: "I've never got into this
business about speculating about who does what - and I don't actually think it's
the office you hold, it's actually what you do in the office that you are
involved in."

That is his standard response to ritual media inquiries, even at times when
speculation about Mr Blair's intentions has been running high in both Blair and
Brown camps.

Yesterday, interviewed on a train journey back from the CBI conference, he
adopted a "whatever you make of it" shrug to attempts to interpret his remarks
and ended by saying: "I believe as chancellor there are many things I can and
will continue to do" to tackle the "educational, the science and entrepreneurial
challenge" ahead.

Pressed on whether he remained a candidate for the leadership, Mr Brown told the
BBC: "I want to do what's right for the country. And I believe that we do have a
national mission. I do believe that as a country we need a stronger sense of our
destiny as a nation. I do believe there are difficult long-term choices that
we've got to make and I can help make them."

Those close to Labour's longest-serving chancellor frequently emphasise how he
restlessly examines the economic and social challenges facing British investment
and employment as India and China reach levels of industrial development that
will jeopardise much of current British manufacturing.

Mr Brown conceded as much to BBC1's Six O'Clock News when he said: "For me there
is a mission for this country moving forward. There are big long-term decisions
we've got to take as a nation. It's my job, I think, to alert people to the
opportunities ahead and I believe that Britain can be the best place to grow up
in."

In terms which underline his commitment to combining economic efficiency and the
quest for social justice, Mr Brown added: "I believe that Britain could be the
best place to start a business and find employment, the best place to retire in.
Because I do believe we've got this unique opportunity and this is indeed a
turning point for our country."

Mr Blair has said he hopes to win a third term of office in an election widely
expected to be held on May 5 next year, and serve a full parliament. Mr Brown
accepts it, though few MPs believe events will turn out that way.

A Populus poll for the Times yesterday gave the Conservatives a five percentage
point boost over their feeble 28% performance in October, leaving them on 33% to
Labour's 34% (down one point), with the Liberal Democrats on 22%, down three.
The collapse of Ukip amid internal feuds - from 5% to 2% - underlines the
volatile mood.

Mr Brown's series of guarded replies should have left No 10 happy that No 11 is
not seeking to exploit Mr Blair's continuing trust problems over the Iraq war.

But both camps remain twitchy and are quietly making efforts to shore up their
support.

At the CBI yesterday Mr Brown's courtship fell short of promising that
government could solve the pension shortfall. That would simply repeat the
fiscal problems of the past, he told CBI members.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               54 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 9, 2004, Tuesday

Happy anniversary for Howard as poll rating bounces back

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 533 words


Michael Howard has been given an opinion poll boost on his first anniversary as
Conservative leader. Both his own and his party's ratings have recovered sharply
from their low points during the annual conference season.

A Populus poll for The Times undertaken last weekend puts Labour and the Tories
level pegging on 34 and 33 per cent. These figures will dent Labour claims that
it has seen off the Tories before the general election expected next year. The
poll also shows the highest level of opposition so far to the war in Iraq.

The Tories' 33 per cent share represents a five-point rise since early October.

However, the rating of 28 per cent was unusually low because the poll was
undertaken at the end of the Labour conference week and after the Tories came
fourth in the Hartlepool by-election. The Tories have been helped by a fall in
support for the UK Independence Party from 5 to to 2 per cent after its bitter
arguments over Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Mr Howard's personal rating has also picked up from its October low, so that on
a ten-point scale he is now on 4.54, up from 4.15. However, his rating is still
behind Tony Blair's and has improved least among Tory voters after last month's
big drop. He fares worst of the three party leaders among his own party's
voters: at 6.06, compared with 6.82 for Tony Blair and 6.28 for Charles Kennedy.

Labour support has slipped from 35 to 34 per cent since early October. The
party's rating is underpinned by a continuing high level of economic optimism:
nearly two thirds of voters think the economy will fare well for the country
over the next year and more than three fifths think it will bode well for their
families.

Mr Blair's personal rating has fallen sharply in the past month from 5.31 to
4.85, around its recent low. His rating has fallen among Labour supporters from
7.64 to 6.82.

Support for the Liberal Democrats has slipped from 25 to 22 per cent, partly
because the party has recently been out of the public eye. Mr Kennedy's own
rating is fractionally the highest of the three party leaders, but, at 4.87, is
down slightly on the previous three months.

After a review by The Times and Populus, a number of changes have been made to
the way that the poll is undertaken, though they should make no more than one
percentage point difference to the voting shares of each of the parties.

First, the sample size on voting intentions has risen from 1,000 to 1,500. This
should reduce the margin of error. Second, the formula for assessing likelihood
to vote has been changed from just including 6 to 10 on a ten-point scale to
weighting depending on the position on the scale. Third, the formula for
adjusting for past votes recalled by interviewees has been modified to take
account of more recent data. This is to ensure that the sample is politically as
well as demographically representative.

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,504 adults aged over 18 by telephone
between November 5 and 7. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to be representative of all adults. The Populus
website is: www.populuslimited.com.

Opposition to war, page 9


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               55 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 8, 2004, Monday

DISENGAGEMENT FROM POLITICS IS A THREAT TO DEMOCRACY

BYLINE: HELENA KENNEDY

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 857 words


If you are content to use voter turnout to measure satisfaction with our
political system, this last week must have been heartening. The Americans lined
up in their masses to re-elect their President, and huge numbers also used their
vote to assert their opposition. And here, the people of the North-east
confounded cynics and turned out in greater numbers than predicted to reject
resolutely the Government's latest offering from their constitutional reform
menu - an elected regional assembly.

Ever since the abysmal turnout for the 2001 general election, our commentators
and politicians have focussed on turnout as the thing to be fixed. Postal
ballots, possible text or online voting have all been mooted, and some tried, in
an attempt to get the numbers up. Simply increasing turnout may make the
political classes feel better about their trade - but should it really be the
only focus of our attempts to reconnect people and politics?

It was the Chairman of the Yes 4 the North-east campaign who noted insightfully
that the vote was a reflection of "something bigger" in the political life of
this nation. Indeed it was. But what? Politicians of all creeds know something
strange is going on "out there", but they are not entirely sure what. Their
confusion is a symptom of the problem. The message from the voters is clear if
you are willing to listen. Whether it's the monkey man in Hartlepool, Dr Richard
Taylor in Wyre Forest or UKIP in the European elections, the public are voting
against the political establishment because it no longer connects with their
needs, values and expectations.

Of course, events of the last decade have played their part in deepening this
disconnection. BSE, sleaze, and the intelligence for the Iraq war have left
politicians widely perceived as ineffective at best and dishonest at worst. That
judgement may be unfair, but it is often expressed, and is a shorthand for
deeper disengagement.

The three main parties have seen an ongoing decline in their membership since
the early 1960s. The parties are now less than a quarter of their size in 1964.
And among the wider public there is a similar drop in allegiance. In 1964, 44
per cent described themselves as identifying "very strongly" with a political
party; in 2001 that figure had fallen to just 14 per cent.

These figures - which are hardly a state secret - suggest that the increasing
use of the anti-establishment vote or non-vote is the latest intensification of
a longer-term and more gradual disengagement of people from politicians. The
cause should not be that difficult to discern. Society has changed massively
since the 1960s, but our politics has not. The era of the great industrial
classes and social deference is gone. Yet our parties and parliament operate as
though this status can still be relied upon. We have two parties designed to
reflect the class conflict of the 1920s. And we have a Parliament that expects
its citizens to be grateful for a vote every four or five years and never notice
that they have no other formal way of influencing their "superiors" in the
Commons.

It is as though our political system has expected to remain immune from the
economic, social and cultural revolution of the post-war era. It is simply not a
system designed for the educated, information-rich, individualistic, classless
citizen of the early 21st century. Sooner or later, the gap between system and
citizen would become a chasm.

The problem for the politicians is that they have no agenda with which to
respond. They simply do not know what to do. The major changes to the political
system of recent years have drawn directly on the constitutional reform agenda
of the 1980s and 1990s. This attempted to increase the accountability and
transparency of our political institutions. However, it didn't even try to
address the increasingly strong desire of the citizen to have a greater role in
decision-making itself. And no one has really been considering what the
implications are for our constitutional arrangements, if we the people want a
bigger say, more of the time.

This is why the Rowntree Trusts have established the Power Inquiry, which I am
chairing. Its brief is simply to recommend how political participation in
Britain can be increased and deepened. Over the next year we shall travel around
the country listening to people about the underlying causes of our political
disengagement. And we already know that there is some exciting work going on.
Despite the politicians' bemusement, there is an explosion of imaginative
experimentation with democratic processes and citizen engagement across the
country.

The inquiry will question how these innovations sit alongside our existing
democratic structures. The starting point is that turnout at elections is now
habitually low - but that this is just a more obvious symptom of a greater
malaise. Getting stuck simply on how many people vote is never going to address
the more fundamental questions threatening our democracy.

To find out how to take part in the Power Inquiry, go to: www.powerinquiry.org,
or phone 0845 345 5307

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               56 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                November 7, 2004

Comment: Lest we start to forget: We should not allow politicians to hijack
symbols of remembrance for party gain. They belong to everybody

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1158 words


OF THOSE WHO attend a remembrance service today or wear a poppy or observe next
week's silence, there can hardly be any who lived through the horrors of the
First World War. Time is unforgiving; human beings only mortal. Another 10 years
and there will be no one from that era. As the direct connections wither, the
poppy's symbolism shifts; the living are free to endow it with the symbolic
meaning they think fit, rather than the one in which it was rooted.

After last week's American elections, left and right alike are keenly aware of
the importance of national symbols and 'good' truths held in common, like the
importance of patriotism, family and hard work. Republicans have made them their
own, marginalising the Democrats so that, as President Clinton has said, they
were made out to be two-dimensional aliens, the key reason they lost.

The British right has the same tempting opportunity to appropriate national
symbols like the poppy as belonging to conservatives above all, especially as
they relate to war, aggression and death, of which the left, with its pacifist
and humanitarian instincts, is necessarily suspicious.

The danger is ever-present, both for the left and the country. The bitterness in
the US is not only about the enormous distrust of the intentions of the right
and reciprocal scorn for the left. It is also that the Republicans, by co-opting
the symbols and icons of national solidarity as their own, make the explicit
charge that not to be a Republican is to be un-American and foreign. Democrats,
as much a part of their country as Republicans, are characterised as strangers,
a divisiveness that takes political exchange to new levels of emotional
violence.

Which is why the left in Britain must be vigilant that it never allows itself to
find itself in the same position. Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon was only slightly
over the top in his lampooned eagerness to wear a poppy as soon as he could this
year. He was very New Labour in his understanding that the symbol, especially
during the Iraq war, cannot be allowed for a nanosecond to become appropriated
by the right.

ONE OF THE cultural underpinnings of Mrs Thatcher's political ascendancy was
created when Michael Foot as leader of the opposition, attended the Cenotaph on
remembrance day wearing what some commentators described as a donkey jacket.
This was seized on by the right as a sign of Labour's disrespect for those who
died to secure today's freedoms.

Foot and the Labour party never shook off the charge, which even clung to Neil
Kinnock. It is fashionable in many parts of the left to deride New Labour for
its eagerness to placate tabloid jingoism, but its conviction that it should
never again lay itself open to the charge of being unpatriotic or of not
believing in nation is absolutely right.

When I look back at the 1980s, what enrages me as much as anything was that the
Conservatives acted as if they and they alone were true to the ideas of Britain
and Britishness, setting out to characterise non-conservatives as, by
definition, un-British. We were treated as aliens.

But to understand that, the left has an obligation to itself and the country to
make sure that it owns our national symbols as much as the right. That does not
mean that it has to be supine about what those symbols mean. Poppies, modelled
in a stroke of genius on the flowers that grew in the trenches and in the mud
beside by the dead, carried enormous emotional significance for a generation
transfixed by the catastrophe of the slaughter.

Every family had been touched by the war; a great, great many had lost a son or
father without ever having the opportunity to grieve at a funeral. For them, 11
November was a moment when they could collectively share grief that was raw and
anchored in the agony of loss; in the years after the First World War, the
country actually stopped, still awestruck at the scale of the suffering. It was
a national moment of catharsis.

That cannot happen now. As a result, the fortnight of remembrance is at a fork
in the road. The British Legion needs to maximise poppy sales if it is to
sustain its vital work supporting British war veterans. For that, it has to
mobilise the already dwindling ranks of volunteers to sell poppies - and for the
British public to want to buy and wear them in millions. It needs to bring new
emotions to a now remote event. The question is how to achieve that.

The honourable route is to use this time to remind us that the sacrifice of
those who died could not be more complete or tragic - and it is right that we
find a collective moment to honour them and grieve. Nations are built, in part,
on the blood of their citizens. We remember the 20,000 Allied soldiers who died
in the first day of the Somme, but we should also remember those now dying in
Iraq. We belong to the same national community with a shared history and shared
future.

THE DISHONOURABLE route, always lurking just beneath the surface, is to remember
that our war dead were killed by Germans. We must never forget war, but we must
never allow Germany to forget, either, and never drop our guard about its
potential to do it again. Last May's European elections, where 20 per cent of
most English regions voted for Ukip, rising to an amazing 32.6 per cent in the
East Midlands, was a wake-up call - if one were needed - about how noxious
journalism, coupled with some native jingoism, has created a toxic
anti-foreigner brew.

It was at work again last week during the Queen's state visit to Germany.
Michael Portillo in the Sunday Times and John Hughes-Wilson in the Daily Express
both wrote that, far from apologising to, or even sympathising with, Germans
over the bombing of Dresden (or see it as a war crime), Britain should never
allow Germany to forget its role in two world wars.

Portillo strained to argue that his desire to keep the wound open was not
anti-German but rather anti-war, but the distinction doesn't hold. If a
particular country is made a permanent symbol of war for all time, it is forever
tarnished. Its rehabilitation is impossible; it becomes a leper among nations.
The note the Queen struck - that the two countries have to look forward in
reconciliation and deepened partnership around shared values while never
forgetting the sufferings of war - makes more sense.

That being so, we should not let remembrance and the symbolism of the poppy be
sentimentalised around a crude Euroscepticism. Nor should they be a vehicle for
an unshifting mistrust and hostility to Germany as the 20th-century's warmaker,
whose villainy must forever be remembered.

Rather, this is a moment for honouring the risks and sacrifices of those who
fight our wars as a trigger for trying to make sure we fight as little as
possible. For our generation, remembrance should not be about Germany but about
Iraq, too, surely worth some silent reflection this Thursday.


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               57 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                November 6, 2004

Weekend: FRIENDS IN HIG H PLACES: You won't have heard of the British-American
Project, but its members include some of the most powerful men and women in the
UK. Officially it exists to promote the 'special relationship', but it has been
described as a Trojan horse for US foreign policy. Even its supporters joke that
it's funded by the CIA. Should we be worried? Andy Beckett reports

BYLINE: Andy Beckett

SECTION: Guardian Weekend Pages, Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4401 words


In the summer of 1997, a few weeks after New Labour won power, a striking
article about the election appeared in a privately circulated newsletter. Under
the cryptic headline Big Swing To BAP, the article began, "No less than four
British-American Project fellows and one advisory board member have been
appointed to ministerial posts in the new Labour government." A list of the
names of these five people and of other New Labour appointees who were members
of BAP followed: "Mo Mowlam . . . Chris Smith . . . Peter Mandelson . . .
Baroness Symons . . . George Robertson . . . Jonathan Powell . . . Geoff Mulgan
. . . Matthew Taylor . . ." The article ended with a self-congratulatory
flourish and the names of two more notable BAP members: "James Naughtie and
Jeremy Paxman gave them all a hard time on BBC radio and television. Other
fellows, too numerous to list, popped up throughout the national media
commenting, criticising and celebrating."

The British-American Project for the Successor Generation, to give it its full
title, was founded in 1985 "to perpetuate the close relationship between the
United States and Britain" in the words of BAP's slim official history, through
"transatlantic friendships and professional contacts". It has a membership of
"600 leaders and opinion formers", drawn equally from both countries. It holds
an annual conference (the next starts this Friday in Chicago) to which
journalists are not invited and at which everything said is, officially at
least, not to be repeated to outsiders. It rarely features in the mainstream
media - instead, it makes tantalisingly vague and fleeting appearances in those
corners of the internet where conspiracy aficionados gather.

Here, BAP is portrayed as a Trojan horse for American foreign policy, recruiting
Britons of liberal or left-of-centre inclinations and political talent and
connections when they are young, indoctrinating them with propaganda about the
virtues of American capitalism and America's role in the world, and then
watching them approvingly as they steer British politics in an ever more
pro-Washington direction. According to this analysis, the project's greatest
success has been New Labour.

Besides the names mentioned in BAP's 1997 newsletter, the organisation numbers
among its members Douglas Alexander, the precocious Foreign Office and trade
minister; Baroness Scotland, the politically favoured criminal justice minister;
Julia Hobsbawm, the prominent public relations executive and New Labour
associate; and Adair Turner, one of the government's most senior business allies
and author of the recent official report on the future of pensions.

In the years immediately before the founding of BAP, the early 1980s heyday of
Tony Benn and CND, the Labour party was sceptical about America. Now it will
seemingly swallow almost anything the US does, and the idea that BAP made the
difference has some authoritative backers. The leftwing journalist John Pilger,
who has been uncovering American manipulation of other countries' politics for
decades, has described BAP as a "casual freemasonry" and "by far the most
influential transatlantic network of politicians, journalists and academics".
The historian Frances Stonor Saunders, who has written extensively about the
American use of earlier, similar networks to influence western opinion during
the cold war, sees close parallels with BAP: "All that's changed is that BAP are
much more sophisticated."

In December 2001, in response to a parliamentary question from the Liberal
Democrat MP Norman Baker, Tony Blair said that the organisation "arranges
meetings, including with ministers, for young leaders from the business,
economic, professional, cultural, artistic, governmental, academic, scientific,
medical, military and social life of the two countries". Beyond New Labour, the
BAP membership includes the Conservative election strategist Steve Hilton, the
shadow work and pensions minister and Tory intellectual David Willetts, the
former Conservative minister Stephen Dorrell, the founder of the UK Independence
Party Alan Sked, and Charles Moore, the former editor of the Daily Telegraph.

Until now, BAP's public response to allegations of political influence has been
to ignore or dismiss them. A postscript to its official history calls the idea
of the project as a vehicle for the American government a "myth" and "a curious
reinvention of BAP history". But what, then, does BAP do exactly? Since 1985, it
has received sponsorship from, among other companies, Coca-Cola, Unilever,
Monsanto, Saatchi & Saatchi, Philip Morris, Coopers & Lybrand, American Express,
Apple, British Airways, BP, Cadbury Schweppes and Camelot. Busy politicians and
other public figures have crossed the Atlantic, some of them repeatedly, to
attend BAP conferences, which can last for five days. One member describes
proceedings as "a quasi-religious experience for some people", but what else has
kept the whole enterprise going for almost 20 years? What has BAP achieved?

The author of both the project's official history and the article in its
newsletter about New Labour is a British journalist called Martin Vander Weyer.
He has been a BAP member since 1994, and until last year was chairman of its
British operation.

Meeting him, at first, is something of a disappointment. He is disarmingly
jolly: amused eyes, a raspy, confiding voice, swept-back grey hair rebelling
behind his ears. He is wearing an ostentatiously traditional but slightly
unkempt suit of the kind favoured by middle-aged Tory journalists, and has just
come back from a lunch at the Spectator, where he is an associate editor. He
suggests a cafe, and strides off, talking freely, through the London rush hour.
He does not look much like a New Labour conspirator.

Vander Weyer depicts BAP in altogether more relaxed terms. "It's both a
fantastic social opportunity and an amazing professional networking
opportunity." At the conferences, he says, "Everyone is on equal terms, and you
take the handbrake off . . ." He grins. "There's quite big late-night drinking.
Requires a lot of stamina. Every year you can see the astonishment of the
church-going Americans. You see them jogging around the hotel whenever you open
your curtains in the morning."

To see anything sinister in all this, he continues cheerily, is "bonkers
conspiracy stuff". But what about his newsletter article? Vander Weyer clasps
his forehead in mock-regret. "I wrote the headline. I thought it was quite
snappy. It was a great mistake. Probably my greatest mistake."

But then he begins to choose his words more carefully. "The British membership
is quite a concentrated elite," he admits. "There was a stage where . . . a lot
of the people who emerged as part of the New Labour leadership group happened -
and I say happened, because it is partly chance - to be members of BAP . . . The
American side is more spread out: Americans who just enjoy contact with Brits.
We have Republicans, Democrats, people who work on Capitol Hill."

He explains how BAP members are selected. Each existing member can nominate up
to three people aged between 28 and 40. These nominees are then interviewed and
tested: there are competitive debates, "management games" and personal
presentations. "We sift the nominees according to their willingness to listen to
other people," says Vander Weyer. "Whether we think they'd fit with the group."

Do they ever pick people who are anti-American? "Oh yes. There are lots and lots
of members who are anti-American." He mentions the journalist Yasmin
Alibhai-Brown. Then he grins again. "I've never found myself in such a leftwing
group as this." If BAP has a political diversity problem, he says, it is rather
different from the one its critics allege: "Some of the drier Conservatives
who've come to conferences over the years have found . . . too much of a
bleeding heart."

The circular nature of the nomination process narrows the BAP membership in
other ways. A member recalls, "I was nominated by the man who subsequently
became my husband, who was nominated by a friend of his, who was nominated by
someone he knew." Vander Weyer says BAP is trying to compensate for this. "We
try to find people outside our network." He cites "a cinema manager and a fire
officer from Newcastle" who have become members. He gives a rare serious look.
"We want to counter any sense that this is a self-perpetuating elite."

The only problem is, BAP was founded to be exactly that. At the start of the
1980s, the idea of a "successor generation" began to stir on the dusty pages of
British and American foreign policy journals. Kenneth P Adler, an academic
employed by the US government to watch western European political trends,
defined it as "the segment of the general public that is most likely to succeed
to positions of power and influence in the near future". This group, he and
other observers predicted, would either follow the broadly pro-American path of
"the founder generation" of postwar western European political leaders, or take
a more independent, even hostile stance. With Ronald Reagan in the White House
and the cold war he was helping to orchestrate in one of its least appealing,
most attritional phases, it was by no means certain "the successor generation"
would stay loyal to Washington. "Ideologically, if a consensus exists across
Europe," wrote Adler, "it would be somewhere on the left . . . a middle way
between Sweden and Yugoslavia . . . distancing (itself) from 'the superpowers'."

The US government was particularly worried about Britain. Despite all the
official talk of a "special relationship" between the two countries since the
second world war, there had been surprisingly regular periods of British public
disenchantment with Washington: over Suez and Vietnam and, particularly, over
the deployment in Britain of US nuclear weapons. In November 1981, three weeks
after CND had held its biggest ever protest in London, Reagan made a speech in
Washington warning that "some young people do not understand . . . why we need
nuclear weapons (or) Nato's roots in defending freedom." With Margaret Thatcher
a deeply unpopular prime minister, and the Labour opposition influenced by an
anti-Washington party membership, a new British official attitude to America
looked quite likely. "It is possible to argue that had a Labour government been
formed," the historian Peter Jones wrote of the early 1980s in his book America
And The British Labour Party, "it would almost certainly have led to the
complete collapse of the 'special relationship'."

A 27-year-old British economist called Nick Butler decided to intervene. For
someone of his age and profession, he already had unusually useful and diverse
connections: he worked for BP, but he was also treasurer of the influential
left-leaning pressure group the Fabian Society and a promising junior player in
the Labour party. He also loved America. "The UK was in a bad state," he says.
"America seemed much more dynamic, full of ideas, open." For years, he had been
reading Tom Wolfe and Joan Didion, and books about US politics. He was always
wanting to visit America, more than his work permitted. At the same time, he
felt the Labour party needed fresh ideas from abroad. "My perspective then was
that my generation - I would have been described as 'rightwing' in the 1982
Labour party - were totally stifled here. No prospect of being in power."

That spring, Butler wrote a memo proposing "some form of regular contact for
Britons and Americans", to reduce "hostility to all things American" and promote
"mutual understanding over a wide range of policies . . . how cities are
regenerated, how market forces worked, and so on." For the membership of what
was to become BAP, he had a specific transatlantic group in mind: "Bright
people, in many different fields, who were likely to influence outcomes in those
fields. People who were interesting. Interested in change. In doing things. In
progress."

Butler says this with a straight face and takes a sip of wine. Sitting in the
half-darkness of his London club, wearing an immaculate suit and barely opening
his mouth as he talks, he explains the philosophy and workings of BAP with less
of Vander Weyer's cheery evasiveness. "I don't think networks are inevitable,"
Butler says with emphasis. "They are absolutely desirable. I think networks are
a great phenomenon. The Fabians are a network, BP's another network - that is
civil society."

Since the 1980s, Butler has maintained and extended his political and commercial
connections like a model member of the "successor generation". He is close to
Mandelson and other senior New Labour figures. Thanks in part to Butler, BP -
where he is now group vice-president, strategy and policy development - has
become known as "Blair Petroleum" for the warmth of its relations with Downing
Street.

Butler's gifts for alliance-building and persuasion turned BAP from a paper
proposal into an international organisation in less than three years. Between
1982 and its first conference in 1985, he recruited a shrewdly broad range of
supporters, co-founders and financial backers: Sir Charles Villiers, a liberal
Tory businessman with a long personal attachment to America; the US embassy in
London, which gave Butler a grant to go to Washington to test reactions to the
BAP idea; and the Pew Charitable Trusts, a very large and wealthy American
foundation.

These days, Pew supports diverse causes, from public health to the environment.
But the foundation's origins are more controversial. The Pew family made their
money in oil, and for much of the 20th century the dominant personality in their
business and philanthropic activities was J Howard Pew, a man of particular
political convictions. "To me free enterprise is a very noble thing," an
official Pew history from 1984 quotes him saying. During the 1950s, he
established the J Howard Pew Freedom Trust to, in the words of its charter,
"acquaint the American people with the evils of bureaucracy . . . the false
promises of socialism . . . the paralysing effects of government controls".
Since his death in 1971, the official history continues, the Freedom Trust "has
supported those projects and groups that reflect the founder's philosophy". BAP,
it appears, was one of them: according its own official history, it received
"grants totalling $ 460,000, which funded the first three BAP conferences".

Butler says that the Pew organisation "never interfered. Never told us what to
do. I never met them." He sounds convincing. Yet, if you read the reports from
these and subsequent BAP conferences, written by and circulated to BAP members,
and talk to some of those who attended, a process of political education can be
discerned of which J Howard Pew would have approved.

Every autumn, BAP hires a hotel, or a large part of one, for a long weekend,
alternating between British and American venues. Conference rooms are reserved,
boardroom-style tables arranged, themes chosen for discussion. A purposeful
timetable of seminars and larger gatherings, dinners and group excursions is
drawn up. Lighter interludes are scheduled for drinking and bonding and
organised fun - Vander Weyer has been known to host a closing-night revue as a
rightwing caricature called Professor Whiplash - but the overall atmosphere
remains somewhere between an international summit and a corporate retreat for
young executives. Even at the more intimate seminars, there are papers and water
jugs on the tables, and some of the men like to keep their ties on.

"I've been on weekends organised by other networks - Anglo-French,
Anglo-Spanish, Anglo-German - but I've never been on such a grand one," says
Alibhai-Brown. "The amount of drink, the way you were treated, the dinners with
everyone who was anyone . . . Jonathan Powell (Tony Blair's chief of staff) used
to come a lot. I remember having many an argument with him beside swimming pools
in white towelling dressing gowns . . . It was money that I'd never seen at any
conference before. We (the participants) used to joke, 'This is obviously funded
by the CIA.'"

Any such connection to Washington is denied by BAP, but a more subtle
subordination to America was there from the beginning. There was the fact that
BAP started as a British initiative, not an American one. And there was the way
the American members set the tone of the conferences. "I vividly remember the
first: we were all stunned by how much more money they all had," says Butler.
"They'd run their own businesses. They ran charities. They were in a different
league in terms of what they'd achieved. I remember Jeremy Paxman saying that to
me, and Mo Mowlam. We were all struck by that."

This sense of American superiority framed and coloured the discussions. As
people leaned forward on the conference tables and made bright-eyed
presentations and asked each other penetrating questions, European notions such
as socialism, the welfare state and high levels of government spending were
judged, in the slightly sweeping way of clever young thinkers, to be in
difficulties. American notions such as less regulated capitalism, a smaller
"enabling state" and a world kept safe by the Pentagon came to be regarded as
sensible, inevitable. "Five years before I joined BAP, I thought wealth creation
and progressive politics were completely incompatible," says Trevor Phillips,
now chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality. "BAP was one of the things
that made me think that was absurd."

For the American participants, the political epiphanies were less dramatic.
"Americans who might have thought that the Labour party was off the radar screen
had their minds opened," says George R Packard, a prominent American
international relations academic and BAP supporter from the beginning. Another
American member says simply, "You learn a lot about how many perspectives there
can be." In Phillips's experience, the traffic in specific ideas was mostly
one-way: "I didn't detect that the Americans had learned a great amount (from
us) about what they could and should do in the US."

Besides the advantages of the American way, the other big political
preoccupation of BAP conferences during the 1980s and early 1990s was the
condition and prospects of the Labour party. The Conservatives may have been in
government, but the conference reports mention them surprisingly rarely.
Instead, there are involved discussions about the Labour attitude to nuclear
weapons, about the strengths and weaknesses of the party's general election
campaigning, about whether, as BAP members saw it in 1987, Labour "had more
interest in remaining a party, with policies and an ideology, than in achieving
power".

It is too conspiratorial to see in these debates the creation, in secret, of New
Labour. The remade party was the product of countless gatherings and
discussions, and too many of its architects - Blair and Gordon Brown, to name
two - were not BAP members. But, in retrospect at least, there was a whiff of
something new in the analyses of Labour's problems presented at BAP conferences.
"Most of us held broadly New Labour views - before Tony, you could say," says
Lord Lipsey, the journalist, Labour peer and BAP member. "BAP was one of a
number of streams that came together in New Labour."

Of course, not everyone in BAP is a politician, just as not every conference
seminar is about politics. "For any 10 politicians who happen to be members,"
says Vander Weyer, "you could name 10 artists, writers . . . " He pauses, and
then a gleam comes into his eye: "Benjamin Zephaniah (the radical black British
poet) is a member. Although not a regular attender."

Another element of the BAP membership is less surprising. "Many BAP alumni are
directly involved with US and UK military and defence establishments," noted the
2002 conference report. An account followed of a conference excursion to the
Pentagon: "Our BAP group was welcomed as 'old friends'." Butler is equally frank
about the link. "The military are quite important, quite influential. We had a
great guy who was a Polaris submarine commander. And he was a leftwinger . . .
loosely leftwing. (Colonel) Bob Stewart, of Bosnia fame - a lovely guy - gave a
great break-out talk. These weren't people pumping out a military line. These
people were talking about their direct experience."

The encounters and contacts that BAP makes possible are often cited
enthusiastically by members. An American mentions meeting an astronaut at a
conference. "We kept in touch . . . then he told me he was giving a lecture at
West Point (the US military academy). I took the train up and we had dinner. It
was a blast! Completely out of my normal world."

Packard says that at the conferences he is "astounded at how quickly the bonding
takes place". In BAP's official literature, the former Labour minister Chris
Smith describes attending one as "four intoxicating days of thought and
discussion". Critics of BAP say that is precisely the point. "Propaganda that
really works," says Saunders, "is when you get people to move in directions you
want them to for reasons they think are their own."

Yet not everyone joins BAP with their guard down. "I did make some inquiries
privately before joining," says the British writer and foreign policy analyst
Anatol Lieven. He cites the infamous British liberal journal secretly funded by
the CIA during the cold war: "After the whole Encounter experience, one does
have to be a little careful." But Lieven's inquiries about BAP left him
reassured: "It is genuinely pluralist. The discussions are very frank. In 2002,
they asked me to give a talk on Bush's strategy in which I was very, very
tough."

Other critics of Washington join BAP in order, they say, to know their enemy.
Alibhai-Brown found her first conference in 1988 "a miserable experience . . .
but really useful. There were hardly any women, and unspeakable people - so
rightwing - on both the British and American sides. But I wanted to know about
this very powerful axis, to learn to talk to them without poking them in the
eye." She was still attending BAP conferences 15 years later.

A certain number of internal dissidents are good for the project's image: they
make BAP, and the Anglo-American relationship, seem open to criticism but too
important to ignore. And they keep the conferences interesting. But,
reassuringly, not every rebel is successfully co-opted. Zephaniah recalls his
one and only conference: "It was in this hotel in California, in Oakland, the
Claremont. I remember them (the BAP members) all as men in suits or
power-dressed women. Oil people, a couple of people from minority groups. I
remember loads of trust games. The men were told, 'Now take off your tie, and
relax, and do some yoga exercises, and go off into a group, and talk about
empowerment.'"

Zephaniah started skipping the discussion groups by telling each one that he was
going to the other. But after a while he had had enough. One evening, "I
escaped. I got out of the hotel. I went down to Berkeley (the neighbouring
city), hung out with some homeless people, went to see a friend of mine." How
did BAP treat him after that? "Every year, they kept sending me the report of
the last conference. I had a whole shelf of them. Last year, I put them in the
bin."

Sitting in his London club, in his immaculate suit, Butler smiles. We have been
talking for perhaps 20 minutes, and we are already on to the second glass of
wine. The founder of BAP, like many of its members, is good at being convivial.
"BAP is not a terribly serious venture," he says. "It's an interesting venture."
He says he feels "quite proud" of what it has achieved. "A lot of people have
learned a lot from American experience in a lot of fields."

He says he hopes that the British members of BAP can exert a moderating
influence on America in return. Perhaps. The more liberal American members of
BAP also hope so. But, as with the special relationship itself, the power and
uniqueness of BAP can be overstated. There are other Anglo-American networks for
the young and ambitious: Rhodes scholars, Fulbright scholars, Kennedy scholars.
And there are other American networks. Packard mentions one in passing: "In
2000, I started an exact clone of BAP: the US-Japan leadership project."

Behind the confidence of the BAP conferences, according to Vander Weyer, lies a
skeletal organisation: no British office, a "cubicle office" in the US, a tiny
staff working from home. "From time to time we receive a small amount of money
from the foreign and commonwealth office, the US embassy," he says. After
getting their first conference for free, members pay up to £500 each to attend.

And every year, BAP needs new members. As he gets up to go at the end of our
interview, Vander Weyer gestures expansively across the cafe table. "Depending
on how this goes," he says, "I'd be very happy to nominate you."

UK members of the British-American Project include:

Peter Mandelson EU trade commissioner

Jonathan Powell Tony Blair's chief of staff

Jeremy Paxman broadcast journalist and author

Mo Mowlam former Labour Northern Ireland secretary

Adair Turner head of pensions commission

Trevor Phillips chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality

James Naughtie broadcast journalist and author

Matthew Taylor Downing Street head of policy

Chris Smith former Labour culture secretary

Baroness Symons Foreign Office minister

Lord Robertson former Nato secretary-general

Douglas Alexander Foreign Office and trade minister

Geoff Mulgan former head of Downing Street's policy and strategy unit

Baroness Scotland Home Office minister

Julia Hobsbawm public relations consultant

Steve Hilton Conservative special adviser

Benjamin Zephaniah poet and activist

Colonel Bob Stewart former commander of British forces in Bosnia

David Willetts Conservative shadow work and pensions secretary

Alan Sked founder of Ukip

Stephen Dorrell former Conservative health secretary

Yasmin Alibhai-Brown columnist and broadcaster

Charles Moore former editor of the Daily Telegraph

Nick Butler BP group vice-president, strategy and policy development

Lord Lipsey Labour peer and author


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               58 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 6, 2004, Saturday

CRUSHING NO' VOTE LEAVES DEVOLUTION PLANS IN RUINS

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT Campaigners against the assembly
are calling on John Pescott to resign after his massive defeat Paul Kingston

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 657 words


THE OVERWHELMING vote against an elected regional assembly in the North-east may
have set the cause of English devolution back 20 years, ministers believe.

The Government was stunned by the scale of the defeat - by 78 per cent to 22 per
cent. The verdict of voters in a region traditionally loyal to Labour was a
humiliating rebuff to John Prescott, who has championed the concept of English
"mini-parliaments" for years. Last night the anti- assembly campaign called for
the Deputy Prime Minister to resign over the defeat.

Although ministers insisted referendums on English assemblies could still be
staged elsewhere, they conceded that the North-east result had killed off the
initiative for the foreseeable future. One said: "We can't risk going through
this again. It's hard to see how we can return to this within a decade, or even
two." Nick Raynsford, the Local Government minister, hinted at a similar
timescale yesterday by citing the example of Welsh devolution. He told BBC Radio
4: "At the first attempt in Wales in 1979, people voted no and that was 80 per
cent against. When the second offer was made in 1997-98, a very different result
was seen."

Mr Prescott has been a long-standing advocate of elected assemblies, but not all
his cabinet colleagues have been so enthusiastic. He is angry they did not do
more to champion devolution to the North-east, but some ministers believe he
pursued it too doggedly.

The referendum produced a decisive vote of 696,519 to 197,310 against the
proposal on a higher-than-expected turnout of 48.4 per cent. Ministers had been
braced for defeat after the "yes" campaign failed to catch fire, but the size of
the margin staggered them. All the region's 23 council areas - including
Sedgefield represented by Tony Blair and the Darlington constituency of Alan
Milburn, Labour's election co-ordinator - produced a clear "no" vote.

Labour and the Liberal Democrats joined forces with business leaders and local
celebrities to push for a "yes" vote, but their campaign failed to take off. All
the running was made by opponents of the assembly, backed by the Tories and the
UK Independence Party, who adopted a giant inflatable white elephant as their
campaign symbol.

Speaking after the result, Mr Prescott, who was clearly disconsolate,
acknowledged the result was "emphatic". He said: "It was an overwhelming defeat
for the proposal put before the North-east public. As a government we believe in
letting the people have their say."

Neil Heron, of the "no" campaign, said: "We did not expect anything other than
an absolute landslide. We expect, after spending more than pounds 10m of public
money on this fruitless exercise, Mr Prescott will now consider his position."

Proposed referendums in the North-west and Yorkshire and the Humber have already
been postponed. They now look certain to be cancelled.

The outcome carries a warning for ministers, as they plan a vote on the European
constitution for spring 2006, that such a poll can easily become a referendum on
the Government's popularity.

A Tory frontbencher said: "Labour's agenda on constitutional reform and Europe
has now been shattered. They thought that all they had to do was to get the
Prime Minister to smile and wave at the crowds. It didn't work in the North-east
and it won't work on Europe."

Downing Street put on a brave face. A spokeswoman said: "The Government wanted
to give the choice to the people of the North-east. They have made their
decision and we respect that."

Michael Howard, the Tory leader, said: "I am very pleased the people of the
North-east have seen through the Government's plans for a very expensive talking
shop.

"The voters have seen that these plans would have involved more highly- paid
politicians. They have realised it would be all talk and I am delighted that
they have rejected it."

Leading article, page 44

Anthony Sampson, page 45

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               59 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 6, 2004, Saturday

CRUSHING NO' VOTE LEAVES DEVOLUTION PLANS IN RUINS

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT John Prescott campaigning in
Newcastle: Some ministers believe he pursued devolution too doggedly Paul
Kingston

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 616 words


THE OVERWHELMING vote against an elected regional assembly in the North-east may
have set back the cause of English devolution by 20 years, ministers believe.

The Government was stunned by the scale of the defeat - by 78 per cent to 22 per
cent. The verdict of voters in a region traditionally loyal to Labour was a
humiliating rebuff to John Prescott, who has championed the concept of English
"mini-parliaments" for years. Last night the anti- assembly campaign called for
the Deputy Prime Minister to resign over the defeat.

Although ministers insisted referendums could still be staged elsewhere, they
conceded that the North-east result had killed off the initiative for the
foreseeable future. One said: "We can't risk going through this again. It's hard
to see how we can return to this within a decade, or even two."

Nick Raynsford, the Local Government minister, hinted at a similar timescale
yesterday by citing the example of Welsh devolution. He told BBC Radio 4: "At
the first attempt in Wales in 1979, people voted no' and that was 80 per cent
against. When the second offer was made in 1997-98, a very different result was
seen."

Mr Prescott has been a long-standing advocate of elected assemblies, but not all
his cabinet colleagues have been so enthusiastic. He is angry they did not do
more to champion devolution to the North-east, but some ministers believe he
pursued it too doggedly.

The referendum produced a vote of 696,519 to 197,310 against the proposal on a
turnout of 48.4 per cent. Ministers were braced for defeat after the "yes"
campaign failed to catch fire, but the size of the margin staggered them. All
the region's 23 council areas - including Sedgefield, represented by Tony Blair,
and the Darlington constituency of Alan Milburn - produced a clear "no" vote.

Labour and the Liberal Democrats joined forces with business leaders and local
celebrities to push for a "yes" vote, but their campaign failed to take off. All
the running was made by opponents of the assembly, backed by the Tories and the
UK Independence Party, who adopted a giant inflatable white elephant as their
campaign symbol.

Speaking after the result, Mr Prescott, who was clearly disconsolate,
acknowledged the result was "emphatic". He said: "It was an overwhelming defeat
for the proposal put before the North-east public. As a government we believe in
letting the people have their say."

Neil Heron, of the "no" campaign, said: "We did not expect anything other than
an absolute landslide. We expect, after spending more than pounds 10m of public
money on this fruitless exercise, Mr Prescott will now consider his position."

Proposed referendums for establishing assemblies in the North-west and Yorkshire
and the Humber have already been postponed. They now look certain to be
cancelled.

The outcome carries a warning for ministers, as they plan a vote on the European
constitution for spring 2006, that such a poll can easily become a referendum on
the Government's popularity.

A Tory frontbencher said: "Labour's agenda on constitutional reform and Europe
has now been shattered. They thought that all they had to do was to get the
Prime Minister to smile and wave at the crowds. It didn't work in the North-east
and it won't work on Europe."

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The Government wanted to give the choice to
the people of the North-east. They have made their decision and we respect
that."

Michael Howard, the Tory leader, said he was "delighted" that the people of the
North-east had "seen through the Government's plans for a very expensive talking
shop".

Leading article, page 44

Anthony Sampson, page 45

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               60 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 6, 2004, Saturday

POLITICS: ONE YEAR INTO HIS LEADERSHIP, MICHAEL HOWARD IS RUNNING OUT OF TIME TO
TURN THE POLLS AROUND

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR One year ago: Mr Howard toasts his
election, left. Yesterday: He spends the eve of his anniversary in Tenby
discussing anti-social behaviour PA

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 1426 words


"IF ONLY we could ban the opinion polls," one senior Tory sighed yesterday, as
he contemplated the first anniversary today of Michael Howard becoming leader of
the Conservative Party.

The sentiment is widespread in his party. It is in much better shape than the
divided rabble Mr Howard inherited when Iain Duncan Smith was ditched. Mr Howard
has accomplished much of what he set out to achieve a year ago. He has united
his party, started to boost its membership and finances, brought in more
professional staff, produced a coherent policy programme from an incoherent one
and, according to the party's private polls, eliminated the negatives that had
stopped people voting for it.

But although Britain feels "let down" by Labour and the voters do not trust the
Prime Minister, the opinion polls stubbornly refuse to move in the Opposition's
favour. In some surveys, the Tories have even gone backwards since the dismal
days of IDS. They insist that their own surveys are doing much better in the
marginal seats that will decide the general election. But the published polls
have cast a permanent shadow over Mr Howard's year, halting any bursts of
progress in their tracks.

"If it were not for the polls, politics would look very different," one Howard
ally said yesterday. A Tory frontbencher added: "We should be well ahead in the
polls. The failure to gain momentum is depressing morale. People don't fear a
Tory government any more. But they are hardly flocking to us."

With an election expected in six months' time, leading Tories fear time is
running out. Allies of Mr Howard complain he was dealt a bad hand by IDS, and
wish he had another 18 months to "sell" the policies on which they will fight.
Their potential trump card - tax cuts - will almost certainly not be played
until after Gordon Brown's Budget next spring to stop him stealing the Tories'
joker.

Tory modernisers fear Mr Howard has missed a golden chance to transform the
party, and are worried he is devoting too much energy to wooing the Tories'
natural supporters rather than reaching out to others. "We are treading water -
at best," one said. "We have got to make people sit up and take notice, but we
have been too cautious. They have written us out of the script."

The Howard camp strongly denies pursuing a "core vote" strategy based on Europe,
immigration and crime. Officials insist that crime and asylum are not "core
vote" issues but concern many people, and promise that health and education will
play a big role in the party's election campaign.

The Tories claim they "won" the June elections in local authorities, the Greater
London Assembly and the European Parliament. But their party was spoilt by the
surprise advance of the UK Independence Party in the Euro elections, which sent
shivers down Tory spines. Poor performances in the Leicester South and
Birmingham Hodge Hill by-elections were followed by a humiliating fourth place
in Hartlepool.

The official excuse - that these contests did not take place in "natural
territory" - did not fit well with Mr Howard's pledge to make the Tories a
"party for all Britain and all Britons". His promises to lead it from the centre
and to avoid "narrow opportunism" have also been questioned.

Modernisers echoed the Labour charge that Mr Howard lurched to the right after
he recalled John Redwood to his Shadow Cabinet in September. And one of the
modernisers he dropped, John Bercow, accused him of looking "opportunistic" over
Iraq, fuelling Labour's central criticism that the Tory leader is an
"opportunist". After backing the war, Mr Howard and his party have found it very
difficult to exploit Mr Blair's problems on Iraq. There were alleged
"flip-flops" when he supported the Butler inquiry into the pre-war intelligence,
but then withdrew, saying he would not have backed the Commons motion
authorising the conflict with the benefit of hindsight.

In his own eyes, the Tory leader's nadir came when he bombed during the Commons
debate on the Butler report. Mr Blair went into it on the back foot, but came
out on top. Mr Howard felt isolated in his own party, frustrated that many of
his own MPs were unable to distinguish between the flawed intelligence on which
Mr Blair misled the country and the war itself.

Tory strategists believe President Bush's re-election will keep Iraq in the
headlines and the pressure on Mr Blair. But many Tory MPs fear there are simply
"no votes" in Iraq for their party because the public know it supported the war.

What will Mr Howard do to improve his party's fortunes? The best answer is more
of the same.

The missing piece of his policy answer is on tax cuts. He resisted pressure from
some influential advisers to play the tax card at the party's Bournemouth
conference in October. He was mindful of the Tories' focus groups, which showed
that voters would not believe a promise of tax cuts, but would see it as a
bribe.

To tackle this credibility gap - which reflects a much wider distrust of all
politicians - the Tories have turned to David James, the business
troubleshooter. He has already found billions of pounds of savings in Whitehall
and will complete his audit by Christmas, creating the room for a tax cut
pledge. What has not been decided is which taxes the Tories would reduce.
Council tax and taking middle-income earners out of the top 40p rate of income
tax are front-runners. A fierce debate has broken out over whether to cut
inheritance tax; modernisers fear it would be seen as helping the rich, and want
more help directed at the lower end of the income scale.

According to the Tories' polls, voters no longer think they would privatise or
slash public services - a charge that Labour will repeat ad nauseam until the
election. "The fear factor has gone," said one Tory strategist.

Mr Blair has adopted the Tories' language by offering "choice" in public
services. Although the Tories are frustrated when Labour steals its policies,
they insist Mr Blair's move has helped muddy the waters on health and education,
as the voters now see the two main parties occupying the same ground.

Tory modernisers are not convinced. They fear the party remains vulnerable to
the Labour charge that its voucher-style scheme would use taxpayers' money to
subsidise people who opt for private health care, or send their children to
low-fee private schools. "We should have killed this policy when we killed IDS,"
said one MP.

Leading article, page 44

HIGHS ...

1 Winning the leadership without a divisive contest and uniting his party

2 His modernising leadership campaign speech at London's Saatchi Gallery, in
which he pledged a party for "all Britain and all Britons"

3 Pushing Labour into third place in the local authority elections in June

4 The most successful Tory conference for years in October and a widely- admired
speech

5 Seeing the threat of UKIP recede and millionaire businessman Paul Sykes
(pictured) reject the party

... AND LOWS

1 His poor performance in the debate on Lord Butler's inquiry into the pre-war
intelligence on Iraq

2 Being accused of a flip-flop on Iraq after saying he would not have voted for
the war if he had known what he knows now

3 Rushing out the Tories' spending plans in February, which allowed Gordon Brown
to trump them in his Budget

4 A messy reshuffle in September, in which he dropped the modernisers John
Bercow, Damian Green and Julie Kirkbride and recalled John Redwood to the Shadow
Cabinet

5 Coming fourth in the Hartlepool by-election in September

VIEWS ON...

Schools

This grammar school boy is not going to take any lessons from that public
schoolboy Tony Blair on the importance of children from less privileged
backgrounds gaining access to university'

The British dream'

I owe this country everything I have and everything I am'

The Iraq war

I think it was right to go to war, but I also think it is right to tell the
truth. In the run-up, Tony Blair didn't tell the truth. He did not behave as a
British Prime Minister should.'

The BNP

A bunch of thugs dressed up as a political party'

European constitution

Countries have constitutions. We do not want to be part of a country called
Europe'

Crime

Many people believe they are no longer wholly responsible for their actions.
It's someone else's, or something else's, fault: the environment, society, the
Government'

Priorities

People don't want a date with destiny. They just want a date with a dentist'

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               61 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 6, 2004, Saturday

LEADING ARTICLE: MR HOWARD'S UNHAPPY ANNIVERSARY

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 401 words


AS THE Tories look back on a year of Michael Howard's leadership, it is
painfully clear that they have failed to make the breakthrough with the public
that is required if they are to regain power. All the indications are that next
year's expected general election will see the Conservatives rejected by the
voters once again. Even more depressing for the Tories is that the Liberal
Democrats and UKIP have made rapid gains. There is a strong case for arguing
that the Tories are, in fact, going backwards.

Some have suggested that the Tories should study George Bush's victory and take
heart from the resurgence of conservatism across the Atlantic. But these are
siren voices. Relations between the Tories and the Republicans are at an
all-time low. The idea that there will be a pooling of expertise between the two
parties is a fantasy. And popular attitudes to the conflict in Iraq are far more
hostile in Britain than America. There is nothing for the Tories to gain by
identifying themselves with George Bush.

The very worst lesson the Tories could draw, however, is that their salvation
lies in adopting the sort of moralising rhetoric that evidently appealed so much
to America's evangelical right. There is no appetite for that sort of
reactionary religiosity in secularised Britain. Perhaps the only thing the US
election demonstrates as far as British politics is concerned is that the Tories
need a coherent message and an inspiring candidate. But they knew that already.

Mr Howard has united the Tories and forged them into a professional outfit once
again. But for all his success in the House of Commons, the "big message" that
can persuade voters to switch their allegiance still eludes him. Instead, the
Tories have slumped back into their old malevolent positions on crime,
immigration and Europe. By allowing this to happen, Mr Howard has betrayed his
early promises that today's Tory party is "different".

Mr Howard's failure can be partly explained by a lack of boldness. Attempts to
present the Tories as the party of tax cuts, or of radical reform of the public
services, have been half-hearted and ill-thought through, while they have been
consistently outmanoeuvred by the Government. It is hard to see Mr Howard's
first year as leader as a success. Unless things improve, and rapidly, he is
unlikely to be in position to celebrate his second anniversary.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               62 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                November 5, 2004

Leading article: Voter turnout: Arts of persuasion

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 430 words


"What we did in Ohio," gloated Bob Paduchik, George Bush's campaign manager
there, "changed the face of politics." In elections where for more than 30 years
barely half the electorate thought voting worth the effort, both parties in the
US presidential elections brought a ferocious determination to getting out their
vote. Tuesday's 60% turnout, 10 points up on last time, was a triumphant
vindication of a four-year effort that saw a higher percentage of voters going
to the polls than at any time since 1968 (and corresponding waits at polling
stations that might have raised eyebrows among international election monitors).

British political parties have been watching closely. But they should be
cautious about the lessons they learn. This was 21st-century campaigning,
politics for an apolitical world, a politics less of conflicting policies than
of values that were identified first by the techniques of retail marketing,
followed up with phone calls to individual voters by professional persuaders
culminating in eve-of-poll face-to-face meetings. In Ohio, the Republicans put
four times as many workers on the ground as in 2000 to deliver messages honed to
the outlook of individual communities. "George W Bush shares your values," the
Republicans told the state's deeply conservative rural com munities, which
include the Amish: "Marriage. Life. Faith."

Here, Labour and the Conservatives - lacking the activist enthusiasm that
sustained them for most of the last century - are avid for the costly substitute
of electronic technology. The Conservatives are investing heavily in "Voter
vault", a database that matches social characteristics with a tendency to vote
Conservative. As in Ohio, professional workers in call centres based in the
areas where its 167 target seats are concentrated will follow up the analysis.
Labour too will use professionally run call centres, although its efforts in the
north-east referendum which were said to have resulted in unintentional
late-night phone messages from the deputy prime minister may not be an
encouraging precedent.

But in the end the US exit polls found that it was values that decided votes,
and the sense that their vote would make a difference that brought voters out in
such numbers, a finding that echoes June's Euro-elections, where turnout leapt
after Ukip offered sceptics a reason to vote. In the end, campaigning technology
is an adjunct to, not a substitute for, the genuine involvement that comes from
responsive political parties indulging in good old-fashioned ideological
conflict.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               63 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 5, 2004, Friday

Prescott's dream in tatters as North East rejects assembly

BYLINE: Jill Sherman and Andrew Norfolk

SECTION: Home news; 7

LENGTH: 756 words


Overwhelming 'no' for regional parliament, report Jill Sherman and Andrew
Norfolk.

JOHN PRESCOTT'S cherished dream of English devolution was shattered last night
when voters overwhelmingly rejected an elected assembly for the North East.

The Deputy Prime Minister, was shocked and humiliated when voters threw out his
proposals for a directly elected regional assembly in yesterday's referendum by
78 per cent, with only 22 per cent in favour.

The returning officer announced that a "no" vote had been polled by 696,519
people, whereas only 197,310 voted "yes".

Bernard Jenkin, shadow Minister for the Regions last night called on the
Government to scrap its programme for regional government. "This is an
astonishing rejection of the Government's plans. It must herald the death of
Labour's bogus regional agenda. We call on Mr Prescott to scrap all plans for
regional assemblies," he said.

The scale of the defeat, which follows a high turnout of nearly 48 per cent,
surprised even the North East Says No group which has run an aggressive but
effective campaign over the last month.

Despite a huge push by the Labour Party over the last 48 hours to get out their
vote, the higher turn out in the end favoured the "no" camp, which was backed by
the Tories and UKIP.

Voters in the rural areas of Northumberland and cities including Newcastle upon
Tyne were persuaded by the "no" camp that the assembly would have no powers and
would put up council tax. All 23 districts in the region, which stretches from
Darlington in the south to Berwick-upon-Tweed in the north, voted against the
assembly. Sedgefield district, Tony Blair's constituency, rejected the plan by
23,583 votes to 9,040.

The result means that Mr Prescott's plan for regional government is in tatters.

The proposed referendums in the North West and Yorkshire and the Humber are now
likely to be abandoned altogether because the North East was always the region
most likely to support the idea. The Government is now expected to tear up its
twelve-year-old plan to create eight or nine regional assemblies in England to
mirror devolution in Scotland and Wales.

The Prime Minister and most of his Cabinet colleagues were never enthusiastic
about ceding powers to regional government and will now be under pressure to
come up with more popular reforms to devolve decision making.

The Yes 4 The North East campaign conceded defeat even before the results were
announced in Sunderland.

"We've failed to put across what the advantages of a regional assembly would
be," said Ross Forbes, the campaign director.

"We were trying to sell a vision of how things could be, but we were facing an
aggressively negative campaign which had a simple message about more council tax
and more politicians."

Ray Mallon, the former policeman turned Mayor of Middlesbrough and a strong
supporter of the "yes" campaign, admitted that it had been a disappointing
night.

"It was a hard-fought campaign but the public have spoken and we have to abide
by that decision. Everybody now has to do everything they can to bring the North
East together so that we speak with one voice," he said.

John Elliott, a businessman who is chairman of the "no" camp said: "We haven't
really achieved anything, but at least we've stopped things from going
backwards.

We haven't made the North East a better place, but at least it's not going to be
worse."

James Frayne, the campaign director for North East Says No, said that an
overwhelming victory had been achieved in the face of a concerted effort by
Labour to salvage a "yes" vote.

"We were facing the Labour Party machine at full pitch in its own patch. The
Labour establishment in the North East was determined to save face but it looks
as though they have failed emphatically."

Mr Frayne, who was recruited to the "no" campaign from a new Eurosceptic think
tank in London, has mounted an effective campaign with a simple negative message
- that the assembly would mean more politicians, more bureaucrats and would cost
the taxpayer more.

He played on fears by warning of higher council tax and an expensive new
assembly building similar to that of the new Scottish Parliament.

The "yes" camp admitted last night that it had failed to counter the message
effectively, partly because the proposed assembly only had limited powers.

Recriminations began within both Labour and the "yes" camp with accusations that
the Goverment had lulled itself into a false sense of security.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               64 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 5, 2004, Friday

First region to vote decides no more red tape

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: Home news; 7

LENGTH: 460 words


Planned body had no power, writes Jill Sherman.

THE REJECTION of a directly elected regional assembly in the North East can be
blamed largely on the impotence of the proposed body.

The "yes" campaign never took off because the planned assembly failed to capture
the public imagination.

The 25-strong assembly, expected to have been based in Durham, was never going
to have the tax-raising powers of the Scottish Parliament, the Welsh Assembly's
power over public services or Ken Livingstone's responsibilities for transport
and the police.

Instead, the North East assembly, with a budget of £500 million, would have
taken over the role of the Regional Development Agency. It would have had some
influence over planning, housing, and fire and rescue, ceded from John
Prescott's department. But other Cabinet ministers adamantly refused to devolve
more meaty powers over health, education, police or transport.

"The proposed body is such a weak form of regional government that, quite
rightly, the electorate was very suspicious of it," Tony Travers, local
government expert at the London School of Economics, said. "The public has also
seen through the fact that the Government isn't behind its own policy."

The "yes" camp, backed by Labour and Liberal Democrats, and led by Professor
John Tomaney, from Newcastle University, and Sir John Hall, ex-chairman of
Newcastle United Football Club, tried to convince voters that once the assembly
was set up it would be given more powers.

But the electorate refused to believe it. The "yes" camp ran a non political
campaign and paraded local arts and sports personalities, rather than
politicians.

Gordon Brown, John Reid, Tony Blair and Charles Kennedy went up in the final two
weeks, but otherwise it was left to John Prescott to try to swing a yes vote
almost singlehanded in the final few days.

Some in the "yes" camp privately criticised even these interventions,
complaining that Tony Blair had done nothing to help their chances. Some even
regarded Mr Prescott as a liability, partly because he came from the region
"next door", rather than the North East.

The "yes" camp was thwarted by an aggressive campaign run by its opponents.

The "no" camp, led by John Elliott, a local businessman and former director of
the Business for Sterling campaign against the euro, was based on the simple
message that the assembly would cost more, have few powers, involve more
bureaucrats and more politicians.

It was backed by the Tories and UKIP, but decided against inviting Tory
politicians to campaign in a Labour heartland. Michael Howard and Bernard
Jenkin, the shadow minister for the regions, were both banned.

An inflatable white elephant stole the show instead.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               65 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 4, 2004, Thursday

COVER STORY: DAWN OF A NEW WORD ORDER;
 THE NEW FUTURE DICTIONARY OF AMERICA IMAGINES HOW THE LANGUAGE OF

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 2243 words


anachrophobia an-akra-fobi-ah n. a violent intolerance towards time-travellers
who have escaped the stresses and strains of life in the future and downshifted
to the past. In 2030s Lincolnshire, there was a spate of attacks on owners of
digital watches, most of which turned out to be cases of mistaken identity.

apologhoea apo-lo-gea n. uncontrollable outpouring of apology (often specious),
characteristic of early 21st-century world politics. See also: blerror (n) a
mistake made, allegedly, in good conscience, first attributed to British Prime
Minister Tony Blair (1997-2005).

acupuncher ak-yuu-pun-cha n. one who alleviates the stress of physical or verbal
taunts by striking out at the assailant.

alpha Mail al-fa may-al n. a person who is more paranoid and right wing than you
thought possible, but who maintains an aura of Middle England common sense at
all times.

astronot ass-tra-not n. space virgin, person who has yet to leave Earth's
atmosphere.

attheendoftheday aah-thuh-enuv-aday adv. of a fundamental proposition; a term
much favoured by sportspeople in post-match interviews. NB has no relationship
to any actual 24-hour period, eg "What I'm saying is, when you get up at six in
the morning to train, attheendoftheday, you've got to be focused on the job."

Blair-faced lie Bleuuurgh-fayced-ly n. an untruth that you admit to only
inasmuch as you blame someone else for misinforming you.

Branson pickle bran-son pik-ull n. to be in a quandary about whether to take the
train (qv) or fly in an extra- orbital spaceship to your holiday home.

Brownian motion brow-nee-yan mo-shun n. the act of appearing in front of cameras
with a shifty and surly demeanour.

colonic fatigue syndrome kolon-ik fateeg sin-drum n. overuse of warm- water
enemas.

Deblunket dee-blunk-it vb. to dismiss a notion as liberal and ill- thought out;
to replace rational thought with unspecified fear (see alpha Mail).

Desanitation dasani-tayshun n. the act of completely ignoring, denouncing and/or
refusing to buy bottles of bogus mineral water marketed by a major soft-drinks
multinational.

ESA - External State of America ee-ess-ay n. eastern Atlantic landmass, formerly
known as United Kingdom.

Eurinal yur-eye-nul n. public convenience mainly employed for the disposal of
useless foreign coins recently acquired in France, Italy etc.

foxhunting foks-untin n. finding fault with the news coverage of a global
multinational media organisation.

Google goo-gul n, vb, adj, adv. an archaic word thought to be associated with a
primitive version of the Transgalactic Omninet; a "search engine" that
facilitated access to a "webpage" that offered fanciful textual information,
flashing lights and pictures of naked celebrities, alongside inappropriate
sponsorship.

hypertonsion hi-per-tonshun n. feeling of anxiety, social exclusion etc
resulting from the (perhaps ill-advised) shaving of one's head.

Idi Emin eedee-ehmeen n. frightening, semi-mythical figure who haunted the art
quarters of east London in the 2000s, expelling Asian immigrants, taking on
ever-more-fanciful titles, practising cannibalism and embroidering the names of
his 93 wives on to a canvas bivouac.

iGod ay-god n. a portable device (typically of 500-yottabyte capacity) that
simulates the wisdom and /or awe-inspiring terror of an omnipotent deity. eg "I
downloaded Buddhism on to my iGod last week and I've already reached a state of
nirvana."

iJob ay-job n. optical liposuction for people with unfashionably fat eyes,
popular in the 2010s. The extracted vitreous humour made an excellent teething
gel for babies.

Jaggery-pokery jag-ger-ree po-ker-ee n. sexual misadventures indulged in by
ageing lech who should really know better.

Kilroysilchosis kil-roy-sil-ko-sis n. mental disorder closely related to
megalomania, which compels the sufferer to join and then attempt to take over a
series of increasingly cranky and marginal organisations. Named after the
apricot-coloured television presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, and his progress from
UKIP (2004-5) to Migration Watch (2005-7), the Aetherius Society (2008-12), the
Young Ornithologists' Club (2013-19), Friends of Paul Darrow (2020-21) and the
Conservative Party (2021-present).

lapdogging lap-dog-ing vb. the practice of meeting strangers for sex at isolated
wi-fi hotspots in the Forest of Dean.

liplash lip-lashh n. injury sustained in high winds by over-judicious users of
lip glosses (esp Lancome Juicy Tubes). The victim's salon-perfect hair adhering
to her glossy lips to the point of asphyxiation and public humiliation.

Lycrastinate ly-crass-tinayt vb. attempt to put off cosmetic surgery by wearing
too-tight clothes.

Mail order mayl-or-duh n. colloquial term for the piece of legislation passed by
Parliament in 2012, decreeing that for every Albanian granted asylum in the UK,
two Daily Mail readers should be deported to Tirana. By 2020, Britain was a
paradise of tolerance that made the illustrations in The Watchtower look like
dirty realism. In Albania, sales of golfing slacks, orthopaedic pillows and PVC
conservatories rocketed, reviving the flaccid economy.

Mandelson mirror man-dul-son mirra n. handheld computer for men, capable of
storing up to 3,000 "personal best" anecdotes/business coups/sexual conquests
and programmed to remind user hourly how handsome, funny and clever he is; it
was hailed as a breakthrough labour-saving device by 21st-century women.

mooregage maw-gayj vb. to waste away your time watching conspiracy- theory
documentaries.

moreality maw-al-itee n. economic principle based on ever-increasing
consumption.

moreality clause maw-al-itee clorz n. the 2020 Parliamentary reform requiring
tax to be paid on any household item proved to be in householder's possession
for longer than 18 months.

never-never-lunch neva-neva-lunch n. a lunch date that is cancelled and deferred
every few days, for an indefinite period of time. It evolved in the 2010s as a
mutual agreement between people who didn't like each other very much but wanted
to fill their blank diaries. But with the advent of a new generation of
intelligent electronic personal organisers, it became possible for these
negotiations to continue for years without either party knowing about it.

nerveless bacon nerv-less bay-cun n. meat from a species of pig bred to possess
so few sensory organs that it can no longer be considered to be an animal. In
2041, British farmers lobbied successfully to have these blind, shapeless
blubbery non-organisms reclassified as a form of German Friendship Cake - that
stuff you grow in the dark of your airing cupboard and give away to neighbours
you can't stand. This development confounded animal-rights activists, who broke
into their barns and became frustrated when their occupants refused to run wild
over the countryside. Mounting them on wheels and painting on little faces did
little to excite public opinion.

omnisexual om-nee-seks-yu-al adj. the condition in which everyone and everything
becomes sexualised. Origin: early 21st-century neologisms such as metrosexual,
pomosexual, fauxmosexual and retrosexual.

prefabilitation pree-fab-ili-tayshun n. process of physical and spiritual
healing, usually in fashionable clinic, for people forced to live in cheap and
horrible building.

Prescott logic press-cot lojik n. a branch of higher mathematics in which
conventional formal proofs are suspended.

propertea prices prop-err-tee pry-sez n. a 22nd-century obsession with the rise
and fall of the value of loose-leaf first-flush darjeeling.

Question Mime kwesh-teeyun myme n. reinvention of 20th-century political show to
accommodate the widely held belief that any actual words used by politicians are
devoid of any meaning or value.

quiddicity kwid-iss-sitee n. a revolutionary form of fossil fuel which
transformed the British economy in 2035, after a team at Oxford University
discovered that bad writing produced the most heat - and that consequently, a
copy of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire could warm an average family home
for more than a fortnight. Charity shops and landfill sites disgorged their
contents, and the elderly JK Rowling became the poster girl of the anti-nuclear
lobby.

Readian reversal ree-dyan reever-sal n. the process by which cultural artefacts
once regarded as utterly without merit are reappraised as timeless masterpieces.
Named after the late Saturday Superstore presenter and stalker-magnet Mike Read,
whose work - which includes a reworking of A Midsummer Night's Dream entitled Oh
Puck! and Cliff the Musical - was customarily dismissed by 21st-century critics
as "bilge" and "leaden dross", but subsequently placed at the heart of the
English literary canon. Today, every schoolchild can recite the immortal
couplets of Read's Oscar Wilde: "I'm going to stand my ground and fight/The
things you two do just can't be right."

Rowling rou-lyng participle. to be comfortably well off, as in "Ever since she
sold those BBC shares in 2019, they've been rowling in it."

self-abuse self-abyoose n. low, demotic vituperation directed at any pretentious
associate who expresses himself in gratuitously sesquipedalian verbiage in the
manner of Mr Will Self.

shamponics sham-pohniks n. a branch of theoretical chemistry which gained
academic respectability in the 2020s, when it was discovered that far from being
meaningless bafflegab dreamt up by overpaid marketing executives, the "science
bit" in shampoo adverts actually meant something. Even the stuff about
pro-vitamins, quaternium and nutrileum. The first incumbent of the Pantene Chair
in Advanced Shamponics was Professor

Andie MacDowell.

skintact skin-takked n. sexual congress, typical of pre-allergenic era,
involving skin-to-skin contact (illegal since Sexual Reform Bill of 2042 which
made skintactual sex a statutory offence, except in Wales).

slackardly slakk-ahh-dlee adj. wilfully unattractive. See also: unstitched. ("I
ran into Eleanor today and, my dear, she looked positively unstitched."); see
also slackards (n) minority faction opposed in principle to cosmetic surgery.

squaddyzon skwaddee-zon n. self-styled soldier; mendacious claim to be a member
of the Black Watch regiment heading for Baghdad, in the hope of persuading girls
to sleep with you out of sympathy.

testiculate tes-tik-u-layt vb (intransitive). to wave your hands about in wild
but vague manner because you suspect you are talking bollocks.

train trayn n (obs). a mode of public transport introduced in the early 19th
century which was largely phased out by the mid 21st century due to leaves on
the line.

truth troof n (obs). an archaic term indicating an essence of ultimate logic and
concordance with observable facts, now used, paradoxically, in an opposite sense
in such phrases as "the truth of the matter is", where the speaker wishes to
equivocate or generalise to the point of meaninglessness.

Trusstafarian truss-ta-fah-ree-an n. any member of the cult of grammar and
punctuation fundamentalists who enjoyed a brief period of popularity in the
early 21st century, before the passing of the Greengrocer's Apostrophe's
(Preservation) Act of 2011.

umbilicoid um-bili-coyd n. person conceived ex-vitro and born of woman in
pre-cloning era.

umbilicoid um-bili-coyd adj (archaic). inappropriate to modern world. (His
proposal of free primary education was dismissed as hopelessly umbilicoid).

virtual meality ver-tyoo-al mee-ali-tee n. deleting and airbrushing every
digital image of yourself until you believe that that really is how you look.

war on terriers wor on tear ears n. begun in 2124, after all other forms of
opposition to the 54 United States of America had been eradicated, this sought
to contain the population of small yappy dogs.

Widdecomeback widee-cum-bak n. unexpected, counter-intuitive process by which
reviled political monster becomes much-loved pillar of good sense by dyeing her
hair and writing agony column.

x-dial ekks-dy-al n. mobile phone incorporating breathalyser which automatically
bars calls to former lovers when user's blood-alcohol level is raised.

yummy mummy yuh-mee muh-mee n. advances in genetic modification in the 22nd
century enabled the growing of extra body parts - with optional strawberry
flavour and vitamin enhancements - that provided a ready source of nutrition for
hungry toddlers.

youtopia utoh-pee-ah n. an ideal state of being in which neighbours, fellow
passengers and all other external irritations are eradicated by means of
noise-cancelling headphones, video-glasses and/or flotation tanks.

Zarina zah-ree-nah n. former aficionado of designer clothing who has realised
that a good copy is even better than the real thing. See also, false economy.

Zooillogical zoo-ee-loji-kal adj. of young males; to look for sex and lifestyle
advice in cheap magazines that feature sex and lifestyles that only occur in
cheap magazines.

Compiled by E Jane Dickson, Carl Reader, Matthew Sweet, John Walsh, Mark Wilson

The Future Dictionary of America', edited by Dave Eggers, Jonathan Safran Foer
and Nicole Krauss, is published by Hamish Hamilton, priced pounds 14.99.
Available from Independent Books Direct on 08700 798 897 for pounds 13.99
including p&p

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               66 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 4, 2004, Thursday

YOU ASK THE QUESTIONS: SO, JOAN COLLINS, HOW HAVE YOU COPED WITH THE CASTING
COUCH? AND WHAT GIVES YOU THE RIGHT TO TELL US HOW TO VOTE - WHEN YOU NO LONGER
LIVE IN BRITAIN?

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1231 words


Joan Collins, 71, was born in London, the sister of the now bestselling novelist
Jackie. She studied acting at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art and achieved
early fame in the 1954 film Our Girl Friday and in the television series Batman
and Star Trek. Her career ebbed in the Seventies, when she starred in low-budget
horror films such as Tales from the Crypt, but in 1984, she landed the role of
Alexis Carrington in Dynasty and hasn't left the spotlight since. She has also
written four novels and is a patron of the UK Independence Party. She lives
between London, New York and France.

What gives you the right to tell us how to vote when you don't live in the UK?
Did you vote in the recent European elections?

Julia Turner, by e-mail

I have every right. I was born in this country and lived here until I was 20.
Since then, I have lived equally between America, France and England. I have
paid my taxes religiously in this country and I have never taken a penny from
the state. When my children were little, I didn't even take the child benefit.
But I'm not telling anyone to vote UKIP. I agreed to be their patron. But that
doesn't mean that I'm doing a Vanessa Redgrave. I didn't vote in the recent
European elections because I was in New York.

If everyone gets the face they deserve, is cosmetic surgery cheating?

Nick Smith, Barking

Of course not. If you are an actor or actress, there's no reason not to have
cosmetic surgery. If you want to have poisonous Botox injected into your
forehead so that you can't move it - and I can't think of anything worse -
that's your choice. I think people get the face they deserve and surgery doesn't
change that. I've seen some miserable people who've had surgery, and they still
look miserable.

How does someone qualify as a film legend?

Jody Little, by e-mail

Usually by being dead, or exceedingly old. The legends are Marilyn Monroe,
Marlon Brando, James Dean, Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn... there are so many.
As for the furore over whether Nicole Kidman is a legend: I don't think she's
old enough or dead enough.

What is the best way to negotiate the casting couch?

Harriet Maxey, Cowes

Kick him in the balls and run out of the door. I have done that. That's why I
didn't get Cleopatra. Well, I didn't do it literally. I just refused to go to
bed with the head of the studio. I had tested for Cleopatra twice and was the
frontrunner. He took me into his office and said, "You really want this part?"
And I said, "Yes. I really do." "Well," he said, "then all you have to do is be
nice to me." It was a wonderful euphemism in the Sixties for you know what. But
I couldn't do that. In fact, I was rather wimpish, burst into tears and rushed
out of his office. So, I didn't kick him in the balls, but I should have done.

What was your favourite Dynasty costume and why?

Patricia Simon, London

We once had a costume ball, and Nolan Miller, our costumier, designed me this
sensational Elizabeth I outfit. It was black velvet with a huge skirt, a ruff
and a red wig encrusted with pearls. However, unfortunately, as part of that
episode, Linda Evans and I had to have a tug-of-war over a mud bath. And I was
the one who had to fall in. So this gorgeous three- or four-thousand-dollar
costume had to go splat into the grime. Such a shame.

What was it about the Collins household? Did you and your sister give each other
confidence? Or was there just something in the water?

Bob Johnston, Cardiff

Well, we were a very vivacious group of people. My grandmother was a dancer and
a soubrette with her sisters. My father was a theatrical agent. So there were
comedians, singers, dancers, trapeze artists around all the time. I suppose it
wasn't your average household. However, at that time, I wanted to be a
detective, or a journalist, or a dress designer. I changed my mind all the time.
I think there are dynastic influences in life. Just as a baker's child will
often become a baker, so I went into showbusiness. It's not in the water; it's
in the genes.

Who would you pick to play you in a biopic? And what do you think of the current
crop of young actresses?

Mark Taha, Sydenham

I'd choose Catherine Zeta-Jones. I told her that once and she was very pleased.
Of the new lot, I love Ashley Judd, Nicole Kidman and Cate Blanchett. But I
don't think there's anyone today who can really compare with the glamour of Ava
Gardner, Elizabeth Taylor and Katharine Hepburn. Some of today's bunch may be
better actresses, but we know too much about them. Absolutely everyone these
days is photographed with their tongue sticking out or carrying a Sainsbury's
shopping bag. You would never have seen Hedy Lamarr doing that.

How do you feel about being a grandmother?

Pippa Ledger, London

I feel great. I have three gorgeous grandbabies: Miel, who's just turned six,
Weston, who's one, and the newest one, Ava Grace, who is five months. They are
all total individuals, a great pleasure to be with and a great pleasure to give
back to their parents when I get bored with them. They don't call me granny,
they call me Dodo. My brother used to call me Dodo when he was little. When they
get a bit older, perhaps I might pass on the philosophy that I was given by my
father: you make your own breaks in life. Very few people, other than your
parents, are going to do anything for you. If you want something done, do it
yourself. Don't expect a hand-out.

You really hit the big time, playing Alexis Carrington, when you were in your
late forties. How did you do it? What's the secret of longevity in the acting
world?

Elizabeth Parkinson, Leeds

Well, if every actor and actress retired at 60 there wouldn't be anyone to play
the older parts, would there? Someone's got to play the doddery old grandfather.
Sarah Bernhardt was playing Hamlet on stage in her seventies - and with one leg.
If you can remember your lines and you enjoy it - and most actors do - there's
no reason to stop.

How would you define your brand of feminism?

Nicola Kelly, Dublin

If I have one, it is that I enjoy being a woman. I've never had any desire to be
a man or act like a man. I have lived my life with tremendous independence and,
of course, I believe women are of equal value. However, there was a brand of
feminism that came in in the Sixties that said you can't wear lipstick, you
can't wear a bra, and you have to let men love you warts and all. I don't go
along with that.

I see that you're quite happy to be working into your seventies. Do you think
people should stop whining about having to retire later?

Sasha Carter, by e-mail

I've exactly the same energy as I had when I was 40. I don't feel any different
so, therefore, I can't think of anything more ghastly than not being able to
work and having to fill one's life with sitting around and watching TV. But
then, if I worked in a factory, I'd probably feel differently.

Joan Collins' new novel, Misfortune's Daughters' is published by Robson Books
(pounds 16.99)

YOUR QUESTIONS PLEASE

For the singer Donny Osmond and the musician Sir Paul McCartney

Send your questions to: You Ask the Questions, Features Desk, The Independent,
Independent House, 191 Marsh Wall, London E14 9RS (fax: 020-7005 2182; e-mail:
myquestion@ independent.co.uk). The best question wins a bottle of champagne

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               67 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 3, 2004, Wednesday

THE QUEEN SHOULD APOLOGISE TO DRESDEN;
 THE DOCTRINE OF TOTAL WAR IS SIMPLE. IT IS THE BELIEF THAT WHEN AT

BYLINE: JOHANN HARI

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1233 words


Apologies for historical events are often ridiculous. Remember Tony Blair saying
sorry for the potato famine, or Bill Clinton's expression of "regret" for
slavery? Official apologies are only worth something when they signify a
determination to behave differently. The only reason for an Irishman to go
without potatoes today is the Atkins diet, and African- Americans long ago cast
off their chains. These apologies were empty gestures and nothing more.

So why do I believe that Elizabeth Windsor should apologise - during her state
visit this week - to the people of Dresden for the destruction of their city in
1945? Even the lunatic fringe of UKIP do not actually want to bomb Germany
again. But the levelling of Dresden was a symptom of something much larger - a
belief in the doctrine of total war - and that belief is creeping back into the
practice of Britain and her allies today.

The doctrine of total war is simple. It is the belief that when you are at war,
anything and everything is a legitimate target. Target civilians in enemy
countries? No problem. Blow up reservoirs and destroy the means for civilian
life? Bombs away. There are no rules and there can be no restraint.

Dresden was the marriage of this doctrine to vast air-power. When Air Marshal
Arthur Harris launched the assault on Dresden, he knew it was a city of 600,000
ordinary German civilians and at least 250,000 refugees. The historian John
Black explains: "There were no military objectives of any consequence in the
city. Its destruction could do nothing to weaken the Nazi war machine."

Many of the RAF pilots were horrified when they were ordered to kill 40,000
women, children, old people and refugees as an end in itself. Roy Akehurst, a
wireless operator who took part in the killings, explained: "We were just flying
for hours over a sheet of fire. I found myself making comments to the crew.  Oh
God, these poor people.' It was completely uncalled for. You can't justify it."

The son of one late serviceman, David Pedlow, has explained: "Normally, crews
were given a strategic aiming point - anything from a factory to a railway
junction - to target. Only at the Dresden briefing, the crews were given no
strategic aiming point. They were simply told anywhere within the built-up area
of the city would serve.  My father felt that Dresden's civilian population was
the target and their deaths served no strategic purpose, even in the widest
terms. It was a significant departure from accepting civilian deaths as a
regrettable but inevitable consequence of the bomber war."

He was right: there is a clear moral line between the civilian deaths that occur
in the pursuit of any just war and deliberately slaughtering them for its own
sake. The destruction of Dresden crossed this line. Don't take my word for it.
Winston Churchill later issued a memo to Harris questioning his Dresden
strategy, describing the bombings as "mere acts of terror and wanton
destruction". When shown aerial photographs of the bomb sites - images that
resemble the surface of the moon - he expressed his fear that we had become
"beasts".

Yet in this country, whenever we try to discuss anything about Europe - never
mind Germany - our brains melt into a gooey Euro-hating sludge. So it's no
surprise that the difficult moral debate about Britain's bombing of Dresden in
1945 has been immediately misrepresented. One right-wing newspaper declared on
its front page this Saturday: "The Queen refuses to say sorry for war."

Let's get this clear: only a neo-Nazi or an extreme pacifist would suggest
Britain should apologise for the war. It is a wild distortion to suggest that
the German press today is calling for it. The Second World War was one of the
most morally necessary wars ever fought. The German people feel this - if
anything - more strongly than the British.

Is it really so hard to understand that you can support a war while objecting to
some of the individual war crimes committed during the course of the fighting?
Does anybody seriously think you have to defend Dresden to defend D-Day?

An apology on behalf of the British people will only be worthwhile if it is an
apology for the idea of total war - and a declaration that we will never return
to it. Even in war, there must be rules. Even when you are acting in
self-defence against a serial killer, you can't torch his children and parents
in order to demoralise him.

Yet, with the reluctant acquiescence of the British government, the idea of
total war has been on a comeback tour over the past three years. For example,
one of the most basic rules of war concerns captured or surrendering enemy
combatants. The Geneva Conventions lay down the rules. They should be "treated
humanely... until their final release and repatriation without delay after the
cessation of immediate hostilities". Guantanamo Bay trashes the Geneva
conventions, and encourages other countries to ditch the rules too.

There was another serious step in the direction of total war during the recent
conflict in Iraq. An elementary rule of war is that reasonable efforts must be
made to minimise civilian casualties. In at least one crucial respect, this rule
was ignored by the British government.

This is difficult for people like me who supported the war in Iraq, but it must
be faced honestly. The American and British governments used Depleted Uranium
(DU) in Iraq in 1991 and again last year. It will be used soon in Fallujah. DU
is the metal that is left over after uranium is enriched for use in nuclear
reactors. It is hard and heavy, and when it is made into shells and bullets it
can punch easily through tank armour. It's a very effective military tool - but
it is highly ethically questionable.

DU leaves behind a toxic radioactive dust. The award-winning US reporter Scott
Petersen took Geiger countings at several locations in Baghdad where it is
suspected that DU was used - including sites where children were playing and
food was sold. Radiation levels were 1,900 times higher than in your home or
mine. There is a very strong chance that this nuclear material now scattered
across Iraq will cause an epidemic of cancers.

The British government insists that the evidence about DU is unclear, and -
since they will not commission serious research into it - they're right. But
what we know is highly suggestive. A BBC report by Rageh Omaar, for example,
found that in Iraqi areas where DU was used in 1991, the rate of cancers was 20
times higher than the Iraqi average. And worse, if it is not dealt with, DU
remains toxic for more than a million years. Nothing has been done so far to
clear away the DU we blasted into Iraq. When I asked a senior government source
during the conflict how he could justify this, he said: "We're in a war. Wars
aren't pretty. The generals tell us this is how we win."

This is a step closer to the logic of total war. Ditch a rule here about the
treatment of POWs; ignore a rule there about minimising long-term harm to
civilians; and a few rules and a few wars down the road, we find ourselves back
to Bomber Harris and the firebombing of cities crammed full of refugees.

The destruction of Dresden stands as a warning of where we are heading if we
continue on this rule-destroying road. It's time to say sorry - and to choose a
different path.

j.hari@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               68 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 3, 2004, Wednesday

Labour goes to the shrink

BYLINE: Alice Miles

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 1040 words


Our rulers are in denial about the big issues and are seeking refuge in the
little things.

IT'S HILARIOUS, really. This week voters in the North East seem likely to fling
the Government's proposal for a regional assembly back in Westminster's face.

People in Newcastle and around, the backyard of Tony Blair, are expected to
reject a plan developed and driven by John Prescott, "the people's politician".
Here is the Government's regional policy, in full, rejected. Two other
referendums, in Yorkshire and Humberside and the North West, have already been
abandoned. This was the only one left.

No 10 will not be unduly bothered by the result. It was never particularly keen
on regional assemblies. They have always been seen as "John's thing", a way of
keeping Mr Prescott happy with his own regional agenda. Now Mr Blair's aides are
scratching their heads about "how to keep John busy" next.

Gordon Brown and the Treasury were never going to allow the assemblies any real
financial clout: the "no" campaign in the North East has rightly focused on the
lack of real power that the assemblies will hold, portraying them as simply an
expensive talking shop. Recent campaigning visits to the region by the Prime
Minister and the Chancellor owe more to the pulling power of the Deputy Prime
Minister, new Labour's powerbroker, however hopeless a departmental minister he
is, than to the draw of a new layer of regional government. They both had to be
seen to be backing Mr Prescott's campaign with more than warm words.

In the end the mighty forces of new Labour, spearheaded by the Deputy Prime
Minister but endorsed by every senior politician in the North East and backed by
a nationally led campaign, will have been faced down by a locally led attack
fronted by a market trader and a businessman (though with close links to the
UKIP). While opposed to the assembly, the Conservative Party was asked to
refrain from campaigning locally as it might damage the chances of the "no"
camp.

This has been a rejection of authority itself. Even if the "yes" campaigners
were to pull off a last-minute victory, it would hardly be a valid endorsement,
on a turnout expected to be under 50 per cent.

And not just a rejection of the state, but of party politics as well. The "no"
campaign specifically branded the assembly not just an expensive talking shop,
but a talking shop for party politicians. Hence their official distance from the
Conservative Party. Some fascinating research by the Foreign Policy Centre
think-tank earlier in the autumn suggested a similar unlinking between Mr Blair
and the "Yes" campaign for the EU constitution, after it found that the Prime
Minister risked turning off key voters. (How anyone -anyone -thinks the
Government has a chance of winning that campaign, given the EU's link in
people's minds to more of the same from meddling and self-interested
politicians, is beyond me.) This vote in the North East, then, bears a salutary
message for politicians in Westminster: we don't want any more of your sort. No
10 recognises this momentum.

Hence, Mr Blair's advisers would argue, its lack of enthusiasm for the assembly.

What No 10 has come to recognise is that Labour must find a way of giving real
power to people locally. Labour's campaign co-ordinator, Alan Milburn, said this
week that the general election campaign will be "as much fought locally as it is
nationally. Messages about the record of national achievement tend to mean less
than what is happening in Darlington, Derby or Dartford."

Labour leaders have rejected the symbolic power of locally elected "boards" of
hospitals and their like as a proper answer to the demand for real power on the
ground. They want to go more local than that. The announcement by the Prime
Minister last week that parish and town council wardens and officers will be
able to hand out £100 on-the-spot fines for dog-fouling, littering, noise and
other "antisocial behaviour" form a major part of this new agenda.

Everything is smaller now. Mr Milburn on Monday listed what he saw as the
critical election issues. They are: crime, pensions, childcare, choice, equal
pay and social mobility. No health, no education -although the choice agenda
plays into both. Their absence from that list is in itself an amazing
development, after two elections dominated by those public services.

The next election will be, instead, about the little things: the dog poo vote.
If the US poll has been dominated by one major issue, security, in the UK the
parties are likely to find themselves talking about a local school closure in
one town, the lack (or profusion) of street lighting in the next. And
everywhere, too, about antisocial behaviour and loitering young men, or "yobs"
as some would have it.

What this scatter of issues lacks is any coherence and ideological purpose what
the Prime Minister used to call "narrative" and "vision" -and some see that as a
problem. The Chancellor has been making speeches about the need to form what he
calls the "progressive consensus", "a set of progressive views and values
embraced by the people...we wish to build for Britain a shared sense of national
purpose that is so deeply held that it will become the common sense of the age
and will sustain and outlast our generation".

What sort of shared sense of national purpose, what inspired vision for the
country, is embodied by the boast: "Look, we have issued 3,000 antisocial
behaviour orders"?

If you look at the Government's existing programme, nothing gets any clearer.

Current and forthcoming legislation is dominated by a hotchpotch of bitty social
laws. There are Bills on smacking and gambling, drives against smoking and
obesity. There are worthy Bills, aimed at protecting children, animals and
victims of domestic violence, others promoting charity and gay rights. Human
tissue and human remains get their own Bill. Yet more disability discrimination
legislation, and a vast mental health Bill, languish in the sidings, awaiting
timetabling.

It is as if the Government has given up on the big things, and taken refuge in
the little ones. Making the next election, unlike the big US poll, lots of very
little ones.


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               69 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 3, 2004, Wednesday

Prescott rides to aid of assembly

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: Home news; 26

LENGTH: 156 words


JOHN PRESCOTT yesterday pledged new transport powers for a North East regional
assembly in a last-ditch attempt to get a "yes" result in tomorrow's referendum
(Jill Sherman writes).

With Labour insisting the result was too close to call, Mr Prescott claimed that
he had just reached a deal with Alistair Darling, the Transport Secretary.

One of the main problems about the proposed elected regional assembly is that it
has few powers -a point which the No campaign has been exploiting.

But in an interview with the Journal, the Newcastle-based regional paper, Mr
Prescott suggested that the assembly would have similar transport powers to Ken
Livingstone in London.

Recent newspaper polls have suggested the No camp, linked to UKIP, are likely to
win the referendum.

The Yes camp, however, still hope that a higher than expected turnout among the
1.9 million electorate may swing the result in their favour.


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               70 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 2, 2004, Tuesday

NO WONDER LIBERAL TORIES DESPAIR OF THEIR PARTY;
 I SUSPECT JOHN BERCOW HAS NOT RULED OUT THE POSSIBILITY OF DEFECTING

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 861 words


My interview in yesterday's Independent with the Conservative MP, John Bercow,
has renewed speculation about his future. Mr Bercow outlined his concerns about
the Conservatives' current policies and positioning. At the same time he praised
Tony Blair and several of his policies. Is Mr Bercow about to defect to Labour?

Dissenting politicians cannot reflect in public about the possibility of
changing sides. They remain in their party. If the moment comes when they decide
to make a leap there will be a dramatic announcement. In that sense the subject
of defections is similar to devaluation: Political leaders have to talk up the
currency until the moment comes when they announce the devaluation. For obvious
reasons they do not speculate in advance that they might be forced into making
such a move. I suspect Mr Bercow hopes the Conservative party will move rapidly
in his direction and he does not have to face the risks and trauma of defection.
I suspect also that he has not ruled out the possibility of defecting to Labour.

Even so, no one should underestimate the traumas of defection. I recall talking
to Sean Woodward on his first day as a Labour MP having defected from the
Conservatives . As we were discussing his move on a street in Westminster his
old Tory ally, Damien Green, walked past. Mr Woodward called out: "Damien, how
are you?" Mr Green, normally a decent and convivial MP, walked straight past. Mr
Woodward was ignored by old friends and viewed with suspicion by some of his new
parliamentary colleagues.

Mr Bercow's interview is a broader reminder of the group in the Conservative
parliamentary party that had once looked to Michael Portillo as its leader. Mr
Portillo was fleetingly the favourite to win the Conservative leadership in the
summer of 2001. The Conservatives have had two leaders since then. In my view
they made a grave error when they failed to elect Mr Portillo, as they were even
more mistaken in their failure to elect Ken Clarke in 1997. Mr Portillo's
disillusionment is now so great that he hinted recently that he might not remain
in the Conservative party after the election. He makes Mr Bercow seem like a
weak-kneed loyalist.

What is largely forgotten now is that although Mr Portillo failed to win the
leadership he secured a significant level of support in the parliamentary party
and a fair amount of sympathetic media coverage. No one can know for sure what
impact he would have had. What is clear is that strategies adopted by a sequence
of leaders since 1997 have failed to make headway.

This has produced an unpredictable fluidity in British politics, especially on
social policies. A fortnight ago there was an illuminating debate in the Commons
about the Government's proposals for giving gay and lesbian couples the same
legal rights as married heterosexuals. The best speech in favour of the
Government's proposals was made from the opposition front bench by Alan Duncan.
The Labour MP who followed him in the debate described Mr Duncan's speech as one
of the most powerful and moving she had heard in the Commons. But several
Conservative MPs passionately opposed the measure. Here is Gerald Howarth
intervention opposing the Bill: "Does he understand that some of us have a
deep-seated and genuine fear that setting up what Mr Duncan calls a parallel
institution' will send out the message to the people of the country that there
are two equally valid lifestyles and that one can be in a homosexual
relationship or a heterosexual - many of us would describe it as normal -
relationship? That message will encourage the proliferation of homosexuality".

Mr Howarth is the voice of a large section of the Tory party. It is not
surprising in such circumstances that more liberal-minded Tories despair
sometimes of their party.

Opinion polls and by-election results are increasingly unreliable guides to what
is happening in British politics. But I have a theory that the movement of
defectors and potential defectors highlights almost scientifically the
prevailing trends. From the mid-1970s Labour politicians switched to the Tories.
In the 1980s Labour politicians defected to the SDP. From the mid-1990s several
Conservative MPs defected to Labour or the Liberal Democrats. The fact that
talented Tories are even contemplating the possibility of leaving their party
suggests to me that their political recovery has hardly begun.

With the near collapse of UKIP, Michael Howard has some political space. He
should use it to move fast towards the centre ground where the Tories face the
more formidable force of the Liberal Democrats. In his early days as leader Mr
Howard focused on public services, the need for high levels of public spending
in some areas. He showed also a more liberal attitude on social issues. An
understandable impatience about breaking through in the polls, the pressure from
right-wing newspapers and the rise of UKIP combined to propel Mr Howard in a
different political direction.

By speaking so candidly Mr Bercow might have done his leader a favour, although
I doubt if it will be viewed that way.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               71 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 1, 2004

HICKEY; HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 543 words


HAVING already lost Robert Kilroy-Silk, the beleaguered UK Independence Party is
clearly at pains to stick like glue to another of its highprofile members - Joan
Collins. Party loyalists were more than a tad put out when the super-glam former
Dynasty star and UKIP patron recently admitted that she "might vote Tory" at the
next election.

While some members are doubtful Joan is really the kind of patron they need, a
UKIP spokesman confesses that they are still hoping to woo her back into the
fold. "She didn't actually say she wouldn't be voting for us, " he says
optimistically. "Her support has been greatly appreciated and we're certain
she'll cast her vote for the benefit of the United Kingdom."

THE poles they gravitate to couldn't be more different but that hasn't stopped
fresh-faced explorer Tom Avery and ageing lothario Peter Stringfellow from
joining forces. Avery, who at 27 became the youngest and fastest Briton to reach
the South Pole in December 2002, has just published the deceptively
racy-sounding book, Pole Dance.

Contrary to its name, it tells the story of his gruelling expedition with not a
scantily clad erotic dancer in sight. So why the cheeky title? Step forward,
Stringy, right. "Tom was sitting on a flight in economy when Peter was in
business class, " says Hickey's leopardskin-clad mole. "Tom arranged for a note
to be handed to Peter saying that if he could help him get his book published
he'd promise to call it Pole Dance. Peter duly obliged and Tom kept his end of
the deal."

MlCHAEL and Sandra Howard are looking forward to a special Christmas present
this year - the return of their daughter Larissa. The 27-yearold, who has been
working in Japan for the past 18 months, is spending the festive season at their
constituency home in Folkestone and it should be fun. According to ex-model
Sandra, Larissa has inherited many of the characteristics of her own colourful
mother, who passed away three years ago. "She was a fantastic character, smoked
like a chimney and needed her drink, " she says.

"Larissa is a lot like her. She's a party girl, likes to smoke and drink and
can't get up in the morning." Hope they've ordered an extra case of egg nog.

AS John Kerry prepares to take on George Bush, the college band in which he
played bass guitar, has reformed in his honour.

The Electras, now aptly renamed "The Electras For Kerry" performed in a New York
club the other day but unfortunately only half of the band could make it.

The drummer, a doctor, was on call and the fourth member's excuse was that he
was "running for President".

IS Tony Blair finally losing his precious ability to tapdance his way out of a
hole? His latest stumble came after a lacklustre performance in the Commons
during which his former flatmate, Lord Chancellor Charlie Falconer, was forced
to come to his rescue much to his embarrassment.

A relatively routine inquiry about what the Government was doing to punish
homeowners who terrorise their neighbours left stressed Tone grasping for help.
In front of a packed throng, he said: "The Housing Bill will do. . . it will do.
. . what is it Charlie?" What has it come to when the PM is clueless about the
content of his own Government's legislation?

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               72 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 1, 2004

UKIP WILL SURVIVE WITHOUT THE CHARISMA OF KILROY-SILK

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 125 words


REGARDING Robert Kilroy-Silk's decision to quit the Ukip group of MEPs ("Kilroy
was here. . . but not for long", October 28), the people in charge of Ukip are
not flamboyant or terrific speech-makers.

They are ordinary people who are concerned enough about Europe and the British
way of life to put themselves forward, even in the face of ridicule and
contempt.

We know that we are speaking for the majority of the British people - we do not
need to shout and rant.

Kilroy-Silk, although a charismatic person who has helped to put Ukip in the
public eye, would be wise to understand that the party was formed to speak for
our country, not to put individuals in the limelight.

Eileen Cope, Secretary, Ukip Litchfield branch, Staffs

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               73 of 74 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 1, 2004, Monday

THE INTERVIEW: DAVID DIMBLEBY: THE GRAND INQUISITOR;
 HE'S THE QUINTESSENTIAL ANCHORMAN WHO HAS DEDICATED 40 YEARS TO

BYLINE: DAVID USBORNE David Dimbleby in in Miami where he is hosting a Question
Time election special

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 4,5,6,7

LENGTH: 3115 words


David Dimbleby is fussing with the furniture in the living room of his hotel
suite a block from Ocean Drive in South Beach. First, he moves the small
armchair so it sits directly opposite the interviewer. Then he has second
thoughts, as if realising that, for once in his professional life, he is not
facing a camera but only a tiny voice recorder. He picks the chair up a second
time and plops it down next to his visitor.

There is intense curiosity in the pale blue irises of his eyes. Here he is in
Miami, preparing to broadcast a special edition of Question Time from the city,
before repairing to Washington from where he will anchor a live US election
night special tomorrow night, and a British newspaper wants to talk to him. What
about? As we discuss later on, Dimbleby is not a man - unlike some of his peers
- who likes to project himself, and least of all his political views, on to his
television appearances. He wonders out loud if he is to be interrogated about
the exorbitant scale of the BBC's operation to cover this presidential race.

But, if that is the issue, he is not about to be defensive about it. He admits
there are roughly 170 BBC bodies involved in some way or another - including
everyone from reporters to film editors - in bringing news of the Bush-Kerry
contest and its denouement to Britain and to the rest of the world. As you would
expect, Dimbleby, who, more than anyone, symbolises the news and current affairs
remit of the corporation, says quite calmly that there is nothing wrong with
that number. If that is what it takes to do a proper job of covering the 2004
race for the White House, then so be it.

What Dimbleby does wear on his sleeve is his sincere affection for the
corporation, where he has worked without a break - though always on a freelance
basis - since first appearing as a reporter with BBC Bristol 40 years ago. He
attempted, not for the first time, to win the chairmanship earlier this year
when Gavyn Davies departed in the wake of the Hutton inquiry, only to lose out
to Michael Grade. He quantifies his level of disappointment now at not getting
the job as "nil". His failed candidacy has left him, after all, where he has
always been, as the face of gravitas in the national front room. He has chaired
Question Time since 1994 and continues to anchor the most important national -
and international - set-piece events, from state funerals to elections,
including this one in America. "I love it," he says simply.

And right now, here in the United States, he is entirely in his element. Last
Thursday was the second visit by the Question Time team to this side of the
water. (The first was in New York in 2002 on the first anniversary of the 9/11
terror attacks.) What pleases him most is the reaction of the audiences here who
get to ask the questions of the panel, which, last Thursday, included the
ferociously anti-Bush film-maker Michael Moore. "The reaction is, Why can't we
have this sort of thing here?'," he notes with a smile. The differences between
American and British journalism is another area we are to linger on later.

That is not to say that Dimbleby does not harbour nervousness about the
broadcast he will be making over several hours from the BBC's Washington DC
studios tomorrow night. Notwithstanding the armies of BBC folk here for the
election, one man who will not be with him in the studio is Peter Snow, the
calibrator par excellence of election night results. "Ironically, they don't
have the technology he needs over here," Dimbleby explains. So he will have to
make do with conversing with Snow across the Atlantic as the first returns flow
in.

Then there is the whole challenge of declaring the winner, which everyone,
including himself, got so wrong last time when Florida was proclaimed a Gore win
before the muddle of hanging chads and butterfly ballots began to emerge.
Dimbleby says one thing: he will not be jumping in before the Associated Press
and the American networks have picked a winner.

Energising him is the knowledge that this election is generating so much
passion. "It's huge," he concurs before describing going to a polling station in
Miami earlier in the day where people, a full week before election day, were
queuing for 30 minutes to vote early to ensure their vote got counted. In some
parts of Florida, people were waiting three hours to vote early. The level of
interest is high here, for sure, but, for many reasons, it is also the case in
Britain.

"I think that in this country it is seen as a defining election - the most
important for decades - and in Britain it is seen in exactly the same way," says
Dimbleby. "It is riveting because of the dichotomy between Bush and Kerry,
because it will decide so much about America's standing in the world and it is
obviously going to have such a huge impact on our relations with the United
States. I think it has touched a real nerve in the UK, because of the fact that
the Iraq war is so unpopular there and they are watching with fascination how it
is dividing American voters, who will say whether the war was a sensible thing
or not." Spain was the first to have a national vote in the shadow of the war
and now comes America. Britain will have its turn later.

And then there is the additional dynamic of where a Bush defeat would leave Tony
Blair. "It would be an uncomfortable moment" for the Government, Dimbleby
suggests. "If the American electorate throws out Bush because of his judgement
on Iraq - and if he is thrown out, it will be because of Iraq - it will send a
shiver down the spine of Labour. If the country that we allied ourselves with
decides that the decision to go to war was wrong, what will the British
electorate decide when it gets to vote?"

Covering the US election is one thing, but the prospect of a General Election in
Britain presents the BBC with a different kind of challenge. The corporation is
only just now recovering from the beating it suffered at the hands of the
Government over its reporting of the run-up to the Iraq war, which culminated
with the criticisms contained in the Hutton report and the ensuing departures of
Davies and his director general, Greg Dyke. "It will be a very tough election
for us," he says, noting that Alastair Campbell, who fled No 10 after the Hutton
saga, is slated to return to help Blair win the next election. "The bullying is
bound to start up again when Campbell is back," Dimbleby says. "He may be coming
back at us with knobs on. The BBC will resist it, of course. Then again, maybe
Campbell has been tempered by his own fall from grace."

Yet, Dimbleby notes that falling out over Iraq and weapons of mass destruction
was hardly the first time that government and the BBC have taken up arms. And
always, he says, the BBC endures and survives. He attributes this toughness to
the commitment of its staff - the producers and journalists - for whom, he says,
working at the BBC is nothing short of a "mission". "People at the BBC get cowed
sometimes and can be leant on badly," he explains, "but their spirit is always
resolute, to make the best programme they can in the circumstances - not for the
boss or for the shareholders, because, in our case, the viewers are the
shareholders." And the reality is that the BBC still holds a special standing in
the world. He notes that in countries like Italy and France, governments who
don't like what they see on the screens routinely replace news division heads
with figures more suited to their purposes; that does not happen in Britain.

And whatever minefields may lie ahead - and they include forging a fresh charter
next year, maintaining the licence fee system and coping with digital
broadcasting - the BBC will endure more or less in its present form, he
contends, at least "in the medium term". Dimbleby recalls sitting next to
Margaret Thatcher at a charity event shortly after she became prime minister and
quizzing her on rumours that she intended to privatise the corporation. She
replied that every time she raised it with anyone in private she was rudely told
that it would be politically disastrous. So she had decided to leave well alone.

"Britain without the BBC would be unthinkable," Dimbleby declares. "To my mind
it ranks equally with the monarchy and parliament as an institution that we
cannot be without. It is one of the pillars of Britain. It is so important that
without it Britain would be an immeasurably impoverished country and its
reputation in the world would be impoverished too because the objectivity it
offers is much needed by people who are a million miles from getting it from
anywhere else." That would include from Britain's printed media. Only if you
read all the quality newspapers together would you even approach getting the
breadth of news that the BBC offers, he argues, never mind how objective it
would be.

But Dimbleby, who celebrated his 66th birthday while in Florida on Thursday,
concedes that recent years have not been the most glorious. The Hutton debacle
aside, there has been the drift to dumb down content, especially when it came to
BBC1. That included decisions to clear the first channel of anything remotely
intellectually challenging, as well as to shift Panorama, his old home, to
Monday nights. But, he says, some of those determinations are in the process of
being reversed.

"I have a feeling that there is a change of mood," he offers, noting that the
corporation has gone through similar cycles before, even as far back as at the
genesis of commercial television, when the debate about popularity and ratings
on the one hand and quality content on the other first erupted. "There is
nothing new about the argument. There has always been this question about how
far we go one way or another and there is no absolute. We have seen a move
towards ratings and away from quality. We had a sort of panic stations there for
a while. I can't tell you what will be in next year's schedule, but I think it's
over now and there will be a swing back towards determining that BBC1 should
offer the kinds of things that people would not see anywhere else; things that
will engage people again."

Meanwhile, the BBC will gain strength from the reforms following on from the
Hutton affair. Unfortunate at the time was the perception that Davies and Dyke
were Labourites. That, he suggests, led both sides to over-react when the
initial charges of biased reporting surfaced. At the highest level of the
corporation there was "an over-reaction induced by needing to be seen as
independent," he explains. "Somebody else may have been able to react in a more
considered way". Davies, he recalls, was particularly weighed down by the
impression he was somehow beholden to the Government because his wife works for
Gordon Brown. In the meantime, Dimbleby is glad to see that work is afoot to
make the governors of the BBC more detached from the director general and other
managers. For the first time, for example, the governors are commissioning
independent research into what the corporation is doing.

With all these thoughts in his head, you can see why the chairmanship appealed
to him. "At the time, some people suggested to me that I would suffer withdrawal
symptoms if I gave up this to be chairman," he says, "but I have a funny feeling
that I would have enjoyed it. Also, it just seemed a natural progression after
40 years of broadcasting because, in some way, it would have rounded out my
career. But I knew it was a long shot and I would say that my regrets about not
getting it lasted about one day."

The most common question asked of Dimbleby, who lives near Eastbourne in Sussex,
when he meets strangers on the street is: "Why don't you ever tell us what you
think?" Here he draws a comparison between himself and Jon Snow, over at Channel
4. He does not criticise Jon, but notes that he, in his book writing, has made
no secret whatsoever of his personal beliefs. But not so Dimbleby. It is an
"absolute rule" that he will never say for whom he votes in British elections.
And he suggests that were he to expound his own views on the subjects of the day
on Question Time it would quickly become "boring". Moreover, "if you are
chairing a public discussion, you don't want to give hostage to fortune if you
allow people to think that what you are asking and what you are saying springs
from being parti pris on an issue. To explain things properly you have to keep a
very open mind and not allow your own views to be known."

There is also a problem for journalists and media institutions, he says, if
their own political predilections prevent them from examining all the issues
that are out there, including those they find distasteful. "It's very easy to
miss political tricks that way," he says. Returning to Thatcher, he remembers
how the media in general failed to take seriously word that she, with Keith
Joseph's encouragement, was investigating the value of a monetarist economic
policy. It was only on the urging of one Panorama producer that the programme
made the decision to look closely at what they were thinking, which, as history
showed, turned to be a good call. More recently, after the last European
elections, the BBC, he reveals, berated itself for not taking a closer look at
UKIP beforehand. The jingoistic platform of UKIP did not appeal to many inside
the BBC, but the party emerged as a force in the European Parliament.

Nor should any journalist shy from posing awkward questions to politicians. In
comparing British and American political journalism, Dimbleby says he is most
struck by the extent to which American reporters get derailed into assessing the
chances that particular political initiatives will win support in the multiple
arms of American government, whether on the Hill, in the Pentagon or wherever,
rather than asking questions about the initiatives themselves. "Because of the
complexity of the American political system and the disparate centres of power,"
he says, "political commentary can very easily become a matter of how this will
play and not whether it will work and what its impact will be. It's a kind of
cop-out. But because we have a narrow power base in Britain, where the Prime
Minister, especially now, can do more or less what he wants, we have got used to
looking at the policies and the effect on the public."

That may in part explain why British political reporters have the reputation of
being more direct and aggressive than their American counterparts. And why Brits
can sometimes get in trouble tackling American public figures, just as Dimbleby
did when he pushed the Lewinsky affair too far with President Clinton in an
interview this summer. While Mr Clinton visibly lost his temper on camera,
Dimbleby says that the former president was cordial after the lights went out.

But he has little time for Clinton's decision shortly afterwards to cancel an
interview he was scheduled to do with his brother, Jonathan Dimbleby, a few
weeks later. "Just because we have the same name; I considered that peevish and
small-minded."

Maybe this interviewer has been too soft. Dimbleby, who, quoting a Lord Denning
line - "I have all the Christian virtues except resignation" - says he has no
notions of retiring any time soon, displays a gracious ease that never seems to
falter. Perhaps that has come with years of training. He has, apparently, shown
rather less patience with the managers of this hotel, however. With a knock on
the door, a maintenance man steps in. Our man from the BBC has some issues. The
air conditioning had failed the previous night and his bedroom had become
stuffy. Would he please look into it? And, oh yes, the Jacuzzi - that wasn't
working either. Well, at 66, he is surely allowed a few comforts while on the
road.

LIFE AND TIMES

THE INTERVIEWER

THE DYNASTY

David Dimbleby inherited from his father, Richard, a name that was synonymous
with British current affairs broadcasting. His father was one of the pioneers -
some describe him as the founder' - of BBC radio news and accompanied the
British Expeditionary Force to France in 1939 as a war correspondent. Richard
Dimbleby was the first radio journalist to report from the Belsen concentration
camp and later became the BBC's foremost commentator, covering such events as
the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II and the death of Winston Churchill. David
and his younger brother Jonathan were to follow this tradition.

THE BBC

After Charterhouse and a series of universities (PPE at Oxford, Paris, Perugia)
David Dimbleby, almost inevitably, joined the BBC. His first job was as a
reporter on BBC Bristol. Almost immediately he was presenting shows on network
television on subjects from religion to science. He worked as a director -
including making a film on the Ku-Klux-Klan - and had a brief spell in New York
working as a special correspondent for CBS News.

THE PRESENTER

Dimbleby's destiny was to be a presenter and during a career that has lasted
more than 40 years he has fronted such programmes as Panorama, 24 Hours, People
and Power, The Dimbleby Talk-in and This Week Next Week. Some productions, such
as The White Tribe of Africa and An Ocean Apart, Dimbleby wrote as well as
presented.

QUESTION TIME

Perhaps more than any other show, Dimbleby is known for Question Time, which
celebrated its 25th anniversary earlier this year. He became the programme's
chairman in 1994, succeeding Sir Robin Day, and has overseen such memorable
panel clashes as Ian Hislop's confrontation with Mary Archer and Margaret
Beckett being pummelled by the QT audience in the wake of the Hutton report.

ON THE ROAD

Like his father before him, David Dimbleby has become the man the BBC turns to
when it needs a reassuring voice to talk the nation through the biggest state
occasions, such as the State Opening of Parliament, Trooping the Colour and the
Remembrance Events at the Cenotaph. He commentated at the funerals of Diana,
Princess of Wales and HM Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother. But when Huw Edwards
was chosen to anchor coverage of this year's 60th anniversary of D-Day, some
wondered whether the Dimbleby era might be coming to a close.

CHAIRMANSHIP

Dimbleby put himself forward as a potential successor to Gavyn Davies as
chairman of the BBC, only to be overlooked in favour of Michael Grade. Dimbleby,
who had been regarded as a strong candidate and was championed by the Daily
Telegraph among others, claims to have no regrets. His standing at the BBC does
not seem to have been harmed, as he prepares to anchor tomorrow's coverage of
the US elections.

Ian Burrell

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               74 of 74 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 1, 2004, Monday

MAGGIE BARRY: UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY

BYLINE: MAGGIE BARRY

SECTION: Scots Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 170 words

HIGHLIGHT: QUITTING: Kilroy-Silk


IT'S nearly time to say goodbye - and good riddance - to the UK Independence
Party.

Once heralded as a breath of fresh air in politics, it is now imploding and smug
star Robert Kilroy-Silk is leaving to become an Independent MEP.

Given the deteriorating shelf life of this party, the astute Kilroy-Silk has
probably made the right decision - for him.

But then it was always about him wasn"t it?

Kilroy-Silk never once appeared to be part of the team that made up the party -
a group of crusty old codgers who had one aim and that was to get Britain out of
Europe.

Indeed, cynics might argue that Kilroy-Silk brutally used UKIP to get himself
elected and back into the public eye after he was axed from his TV show for
anti-Arab remarks that appeared in a newspaper.

The fact that he managed to merge at least for a time with the right wingers of
the UKIP speaks volumes for the one-time Labour politician.

Now he"s left them behind as he propels his own star forward.

There's a surprise.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.
