
                               1 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 31, 2004

We've been betrayed on Europe

BYLINE: PETER MCKAY

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1408 words


EXPLAINING why she's supporting the UK Independence Party, the veteran
glamour-puss Joan Collins says: 'I feel that my country - I am English - is
losing a lot of what I grew up with. I feel we are eroding ourselves to
Brussels.' Eroding ourselves to Brussels?

Former Labour MP Robert Kilroy-Silk, who is standing as a UKIP candidate in the
European elections, explains: 'Joan Collins believes what we believe in. She
wants Britain to govern itself.' The UKIP is routinely depicted as a sinister
collection of misfits - 'the British National Party in blazers' - but its growth
is now a worry to the big parties, especially the Tories.

Exhausted by years of internal wrangling about Europe, they no longer provide a
home to voters who dislike and distrust the European Community and abhor the
type of Johnny Foreigner who abuses our hospitality.

The UKIP is a haven for such voters. It calls the Channel Tunnel the Channel
Funnel and wants us out of the EU.

It says: 'There's a limit to the number of people we can take on a small island
. . .' and its latest leaflet boasts: 'At last! A non-racist party that takes a
firm line on immigration.'

THE party exists because Labour, and to a lesser degree the Conservatives, have
turned their backs on voters who think in simple terms like 'Britain for the
British'.

Both of the major parties champion 'inclusiveness'.

But in reality neither wants anything to do with people who yearn for a bygone
era in which we made our own laws and immigrants had to adapt to our way of life
and customs without receiving special treatment.

Their calculation is that those who harbour such sentiments are demographically
small in number and decreasing as multiculturalism spreads.

The growth of the British National Party and the UKIP indicates that they are
wrong.

Moreover, the figures for those prepared to support the BNP and the UKIP are
surely the tip of an iceberg of dissatisfaction.

Surely a majority of us - Labour and Tory - prefer that our laws are made here
rather than in Brussels and that, in our anxiety to show respect for the
cultures of others, we don't betray our own customs and traditions.

Now Blair's trying to create Islam Lite

TONY BLAIR has drawn up plans to win the hearts and the minds of young Muslims
who might otherwise sympathise with Islamic terrorists. A generation of
homegrown moderate clerics will be created.

There will be funding for moderate Islamic newspapers as well as TV and radio
stations, and special mortgages for Muslims prevented by their religious beliefs
from paying interest charges.

Doesn't it make your heart sink?

This type of crude bribery is surely a gift to Al Qaeda as well as an insult to
the non-Muslim majority. The Prime Minister has neither the right nor the
mandate to waste our money trying to fashion an acceptable brand of Islam.

There will always be Muslims who object to our support for Israel and
subservience to American interests in the Middle East.

There are plenty of non-Muslims who agree with them.

ALL WE could do was seethe when radical Islamic cleric Abu Hamza preached hatred
against us from his mosque in Finsbury Park. Then we helped the Americans to put
together charges against him and seek his extradition to the USA.

But there's a problem. He could get a death sentence. Which means we can't
extradite him there. Even if we're assured that prosecutors won't demand the
sentence - and that's copper-bottomed - his lawyers will argue that he might be
subjected to degrading treatment and torture like other Al Qaeda suspects.

Do not waste your breath raging against Hamza. It adds to his allure among
supporters. Rage instead against our politicians who failed to find a way of
moving against him.

Why Seb will get over this hurdle

FORMER Tory MP Sebastian Coe's ex-mistress Vanessa Lander says she had an
abortion to save his marriage and career. Lord Coe, who is heading our Olympic
bid, sought an eleventh-hour injunction to prevent her story appearing in the
Mail on Sunday, but he failed.

Mr Justice Fulford said: 'One of the balancing acts to be performed is the need
to protect Lord Coe's private interests weighed against the freedom of the Press
and against what is said to be a matter of public interest.

'In all these circumstances, I don't find that this was a situation in which he
could expect his privacy to be protected.' Lord Coe and Miss Lander broke up in
1996 but got back together last August for five months.

This means he was unfaithful to both his wife, Nicola McIrvine, and his current
girlfriend, Carole Annett.

Miss Lander says the Olympic gold medallist was no also-ran in the amatory
stakes. 'Sex between us was dynamite.' Does this scandal mean Lord Coe should
resign from his Olympic bid duties? That might have been necessary in the recent
past, but surely not now.

Can he face down Olympics officials who'll read about his antics? If he can't,
he has no business being in his job.

There's one possible silver lining. Miss Lander's account of their canoodling -
some of it in cars - puts paid at last to the idea that Lord Coe spent too much
time wrestling with his friend William Hague.

What a joker!

PRINCESS Michael of Kent's explanation for the New York row involving herself
and a number of black fellow diners at a New York restaurant is a little
complicated. She says she and two chums decided to move tables at Da Silvano
because of the loud behaviour and swearing of nearby diners. Her male host found
a quieter table, telling her on his return, 'It's in Siberia' - meaning a less
fashionable part of the restaurant. She says she replied, jokingly: 'I don't
mind going to Siberia or even back to the colonies - I came from there.' (She
lived in Australia.) The remark is so unfunny it's little wonder the only part
of it understood by the black diners was 'back to the colonies'.

However, the fuss is absurd and the insults flung at 'Princess Pushy' excessive.

JONATHAN ROSS interviewed the actors Elliott Gould and Jake Gyllenhaal as well
as singer Janet Jackson for his BBC1 show on Friday.

Mr Ross's approach to chat shows differs markedly from that of Michael
Parkinson. Although he doesn't actually insult his guests, the overall tone is
mocking. First we see shots of them sitting in an anteroom awaiting interview.
This underlines the pathetic neediness of chat show interviewees.

Then their arrival before sardonic Mr Ross (inset above) is heralded by a group
of male singers attired in pink costumes. This also seems designed to hold the
stars up to ridicule.

The tone of the questioning, while superficially polite, is gently contemptuous.
Mr Ross's manner is that of a slightly inebriated City trader with an
encyclopaedic knowledge of showbiz gossip who finds himself next to a celebrity
on a bus and takes the opportunity of asking them impertinent questions, to the
amusement of fellow passengers. The result can be very funny.

WE DON'T have to watch Gordon Ramsay's all-cursing extravaganza Hell's Kitchen
or the oppressively sleazy new Big Brother on Channel 4. Or watch TV at all. But
it's a pity we don't have one TV channel transmitting intelligent, uplifting
material that doesn't depend for its existence on the support of boors. BBC 2
was supposed to be like this, but it soon fell by the wayside. It's the same
with Channel 4. Decent, unexploitative programming must always coexist alongside
worthless rubbish. Why so?

FORMER Tory leader William Hague is said to be earning about Pounds 750,000 a
year, largely from his business interests, News Of The World column and Pounds
7,500a-time speaking engagements. What knowledge has he that makes him valuable
to companies? Businessmen like to use well-known names to impress clients. As
for his column, I'd be surprised if Mr Hague writes it all single-handed;
they're chiefly interested in using his name to suggest the News Of The World
has interests other than smut. As for his speaking engagements, we might wonder
if it's ever appropriate for MPs to charge for making speeches.

Mr Hague was parachuted into the Tory leadership during the party's post-Major
nervous breakdown, and was soon jettisoned. No doubt he feels disappointed, but
to his credit he has never moaned.

Instead, he appears to have decided that looking after his own interests is the
best revenge.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               2 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 31, 2004

Hospital superbug killed my mother in law, says Howard

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 661 words


MICHAEL Howard voiced his anger over the superbug MRSA yesterday after revealing
that his mother-in-law fell victim to an infection in hospital.

The Tory leader said 89-year- old Rosalie Paul died three years ago after
falling and cracking a rib.

'I have no proof but I believe it was MRSA or a similar infection,' added Mr
Howard.

'She was elderly, but I and my family are absolutely convinced she would have
lived if she hadn't acquired this infection.

'And we feel angry because she, and we, were deprived of those last few months.

'She was very precious to us, and it's a scandal that this country is doing so
much worse than other countries in relation to this,' Mr Howard told the News of
the World.

Mrs Paul died in St Peter's Hospital, Chertsey, Surrey, which declined to
comment.

Her husband was an RAF doctor, and the couple had lived at bases all over the
world.

Their youngest daughter, Sandra, a London model in the 1950s and 1960s, has been
married to Mr Howard for 28 In his attack on the spread of infections in
hospitals, Mr Howard said patients in Britain were far more likely to catch them
than those in French, Dutch, Belgian, Spanish, Danish or Irish hospitals.

'Why should the people of this country put up with that?' he demanded. 'It's
simple to clean a lavatory.' Since Labour came to power in 1997, the number of
death certificates mentioning MRSA had doubled.

'The Government's Chief Medical years.

Officer says there are as many as 5,000 deaths a year, added Mr Howard.

'It's a disgrace.' The Tory leader disclosed that it was his anger over the
state of the health service that helped prompt his return to frontline politics.

When he left William Hague's shadow cabinet in 1999, he felt he'd 'had a good
run' and wanted to see how he enjoyed life on the back benches.

'But I was appalled to see how much the Health Service in my Folkestone and
Hythe constituency had deteriorated,' said Mr Howard.

He went on. 'And I got really very angry about this. I didn't see why my
constituents should be suffering in this way.

'Why should they die from conditions and illnesses and diseases I knew they
wouldn't die from if they lived 20- odd miles away on the Continent?' Tory plans
for a reform of the NHS if they come to power would allow patients to go to any
hospital in the country for treatment.

They would also be able, under the party's 'patient's passport' plan, to take
part of the cost of their state treatment as a contribution to private
treatment, topping up the difference themselves.

'It's a win-win situation,' declared Mr Howard.

'It frees up NHS facilities and helps people get private treatment if they pay
extra.

'Our aim is to give the people of our country first-rate health care, free at
the point of use and when they need it.' d.hughes@dailymail.co.uk

Euro poll 'traitors' lose the party whip

FOUR Tory peers are to be stripped of the party whip for publicly backing the UK
Independence Party in next week's European elections.

Michael Howard ordered the slapping down of the anti-European hardliners, who
claimed that backing the UKIP which campaigns for withdrawal from the EU was the
only way of persuading the Conservatives to adopt a similar policy.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, Baroness Cox of Queensbury, Lord Willoughby de Broke
and Lord Stevens of Ludgate signed an open letter supporting the anti-EU party
in the elections.

It states: 'We urge those who normally vote for one of the main political
parties to lend their vote on June 10 to the UK Independence Party.' The act of
rebellion brought immediate retribution when Lord Strathclyde, Tory leader in
the House of Lords, removed the whip.

'Votes for minority parties can only give comfort to the Prime Minister who is
determined to sell us out over the European constitution,' he said.

The four rebels are likely to sit as Independent Conservative peers.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               3 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

Howard rages at UKIP 'gadflies'

BYLINE: By Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 484 words

MICHAEL Howard has authorised his candidates for the June 10 European elections
to denounce the United Kingdom Independence Party as "cranks and political
gadflies" amid signs that its anti-EU message is attracting Tories.

The move follows the Conservative leader's decision to withdraw the whip from
four Tory peers after they urged people to support the UKIP on election day.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, one of the four, was unrepentant yesterday, accusing Mr
Howard of failing to adopt a more hardline Eurosceptic approach.

A YouGov poll for The Daily Telegraph on Saturday suggested that the UKIP, which
backs Britain's withdrawal from the EU, was on a surge at the expense of the
Tories.

The Conservative lead had dropped by five points while backing for minor
parties, including the UKIP, had doubled to 12 per cent.

A leaked internal briefing document drawn up by the Conservative research
department for the benefit of MPs, candidates and members shows how far the
Tories are prepared to go to denounce UKIP.

The document says: "The United Kingdom Independence Party claims to be a home
for Eurosceptics but in reality it is full of cranks and political gadflies."

It claims that the UKIP's members of the European Parliament rarely turn up for
votes and "don't even know what is happening in the European Parliament".

It adds: "Worryingly some UKIP members have even had links with the Far Right. A
UKIP vote is not just a wasted vote: it is a dangerous vote for useless
representatives who will do next to nothing for their constituents."

A Tory spokesman confirmed that the document was genuine but denied the party
was "panicking".

He said the paper was typical of the work the Conservatives did on all parties
to expose their deficiencies.

The spokesman said: "You only have to go to a public meeting of theirs and they
end up talking about Napoleon, the Spanish Armada or the Luftwaffe. They
certainly have their share of oddballs."

Mr Howard will seek tomorrow to distance the Tories from the UKIP. In a speech
on Europe, he will say the Tories see Britain's future as being inside the EU,
albeit an EU that allows member states to proceed at their own pace.

He will reiterate his message that a Tory government would seek to renegotiate
central aspects of the current rules governing British membership. This would
involve taking Britain out of the Common Fisheries Policy.

Denis MacShane, the Europe minister, said yesterday the Tories were facing a
"monumental crisis" as a result of the challenge from the UKIP and blamed Mr
Howard for being a champion of the Eurosceptic cause.

Tony Blair said the "deep-dyed Eurosceptic case - 'get Britain out of Europe' -
had gained some ground and it is important that responsible politicians counter
that".

He conceded on BBC1's Breakfast with Frost that his ambition to take Britain
into the euro was now a "long-term" option.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               4 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

Why are voters not trusted to choose their MEPs?

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 369 words

SIR - I have just received my ballot paper by post for the European election. At
more than 19 inches long, it presents 12 parties and an independent, merely
listing the candidates, whose ranking is not up for democratic choice by the
elector. Three of the parties cannot even muster a full list of candidates, and
none of them, nor the independent, gives an address or indication of provenance.

They could come from anywhere in the "south-east region", which stretches from
Banbury to the New Forest and across to Dover, with an electorate of more than
six million.

We are considered unfit to choose between the candidates - it is party, first
and last. Currently, we have five Conservative MEPs, two Labour, two Liberal
Democrat, one Green and one UKIP. One is to be lost to eastern Europe. Ten
remain, and it takes 10 per cent of the vote to get elected.

Common sense dictates that four Conservative MEPs, one Labour, and one Liberal
Democrat will be voted in as a matter of course. The electorate has no choice as
to which MEPs; the rankings have been handed down by the party HQs, although at
least the Conservatives had county hustings, at which the party members ranked
their candidates. Those clearly identified six candidates can put their feet up.

The effective contest is between the second Labour and Lib Dem, and the first
UKIP and Green candidates, with the fifth Conservative thrown in. In such a vast
region, those candidates have no chance of making a personal impact. The
remaining 90 candidates have no realistic prospect of election, and any effort
is pointless. The result will emerge, not on election night, but sometime the
following Monday or even Tuesday, following the extraordinary mathematical
exercise of the De Hondt system.

What a wonderful exhibition of European democracy, introduced here by Tony
Blair, where the party, through the ranking, effectively nominates the elected
members. What became of popular election of individual candidates for clearly
identifiable areas, for which the elected are personally responsible for the
ensuing five years?

Jacques Arnold

Former Chairman,

Conservative Backbench Committee on Constitutional Affairs

West Malling, Kent

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               5 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

Why are voters not trusted to choose their MEPs?

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 131 words

SIR - I was disappointed to read Graham Booth MEP's letter (May 28). He was an
early member of UKIP and warmly supported its founder, Alan Sked, who always
made it clear that, under his leadership, nobody standing as a UKIP candidate
for the European Parliament should take up their seat.

The party was founded to give people who opposed British membership of the EU an
alternative to abstention in European elections, and allow them to vote for men
and women of integrity who were not motivated by the glittering prizes of the
Euro gravy train.

Such a vote would have without doubt shaken the major parties and strengthened
the UKIP to fight and win seats in the only Parliament that can take us out of
Europe - the one in Westminster.

Bee Muir

Richmond upon Thames, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               6 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 31, 2004

TORY PEER HITS BACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


A TORY peer expelled from the party for backing the UK Independence Party
yesterday attacked leaders over the move.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, one of four peers to urge voters to back UKIP in the
European elections, said the party was "silly" to withdraw the Whip. He called
on the party to admit its European project had "gone sour".

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               7 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 31, 2004

LETTER OF THE DAY; FIRST-TIME VOTER JOAN REFLECTS COUNTRY'S MOOD

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 142 words


WHILE I am appalled that Joan Collins can admit to never having voted in her
life, I am glad that she has finally decided to get involved in the democratic
process.

She is like many people in the UK who are sick and tired of being talked down to
by the big parties who seem to think that they alone know what is best for us.

I think that many people will vote for the UK Independence Party because they
see them as one group of politicians who identify with the way the rest of the
nation feels about the course our country is taking.

If the UK Independence Party can make people feel once again that they have a
stake in the way that the country is run, then more power to their elbow.

With voter apathy at its peak, anything that can galvanise the electorate into
using its muscle has to be welcomed.

Simon Harding, Dalkeith

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               8 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 31, 2004

Howard to begin counterattack on UKIP

BYLINE: Sarah Hall: Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 420 words


Michael Howard will take on the UK Independence party tomorrow after four
Conservative peers called on voters to transfer their allegiance to the
far-right organisation.

The Tory leader will use part of a speech on Europe to distance the
Conservatives from the group, which is threatening to make gains in next week's
European elections at the expense of the Tories.

He has told Conservatives to denounce the UKIP as "cranks and political
gadflies".

A YouGov poll at the weekend suggested the UKIP was making strong inroads into
Tory territory, with the Con servative lead dropping by five points and backing
for the minor parties, including the UKIP, doubling to 12%.

The attack follows Mr Howard's decision to withdraw the whip from four Tory
peers after they urged voters to switch to the UKIP temporarily "in the national
interest".

Yesterday the Thatcherite Lord Pearson of Rannoch, viewed as the ringleader,
said he was unrepentant and threatened to quit the Tories to join the UKIP, a
move that would heap even greater embarrassment on his party.

He said a swing to the UKIP, which advocates Britain's withdrawal from the EU,
was the only way to persuade Mr Howard to back this line.

"Within the party we have failed to persuade Michael Howard to take a much
tougher line towards the EU," he said. "A solid swing to UKIP on June 10 might
help to do so. The only party which might save our democracy, our right to
govern ourselves, from the corrupt octopus in Brussels is the Conservatives. But
the only people at the moment who can make the Conservative leadership see sense
are UKIP."

Last night a Tory aide said the speech would not be "dominated by an attack" on
the party. But Mr Howard will seek to distance himself from the UKIP by
stressing that Britain's future is within the EU.

A Conservative briefing document leaked by Labour indicates that the fringe
party is being taken seriously.

"A vote for the UKIP is a vote for the little Englanders. A vote for Labour or
the Lib Dems is a vote for the little Europeans. Only the Conservatives can
offer a Britain that can be proud of itself, proud in Europe and proud in the
world," it says.

It calls the UKIP's candidates "cranks in the ranks", and insists the three UKIP
MEPs rarely turn up for votes.

Last night the Europe minister, Denis MacShane, said the Tories faced a
"monumental crisis" because of the rise of the UKIP but that Mr Howard had only
himself to blame for championing the Eurosceptic cause.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

MONDAY INTERVIEW: BLAIR'S BRIDGE-BUILDER DETESTS THE ANTI-EUROPE IDEOLOGY OF THE
TORIES AND RIGHT-WING PRESS;
 DENIS MACSHANE MINISTER FOR EUROPE

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Denis MacShane singles out
Michael Howard for criticism Timothy Allen

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1434 words


DENIS MACSHANE, the multilingual Minister for Europe, has just received a text
message from Spain. It is from Rafael Estella, a prominent Spanish MP, and
congratulates Mr MacShane on a muy buena entrevista - a very good interview - in
a Spanish newspaper.

The Minister is very keen on building bridges between Spain and Britain, and
more specifically between Tony Blair and Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, the new
Spanish Prime Minister, or "Zap", as Mr MacShane calls him.

Within hours of taking office last month, Mr Zapatero announced plans to
withdraw Spanish troops from Iraq, a serious blow to Mr Blair. Yet Mr MacShane
is adamant that "Zap", like all Spanish people, loves the British Prime
Minister. "Everywhere I go in Europe there is admiration for Blair," he says.
"They adore him in Spain. Zap quoted him endlessly all through the election
campaign."

But can relations between Spain and Britain really be that rosy? Didn't Mr
Zapatero accuse Tony Blair and George Bush of dishonesty over Iraq? And didn't
one of Mr Zapatero's lieutenants - Jose Bono - call Mr Blair "a complete
dickhead" on live television, only to be promoted to the post of Defence
Minister? "Oh yeah. He called him un gilipollas integral which means literally a
complete finger man, a complete wanker," the minister says.

Despite his view that "languages are something head waiters do", Mr MacShane's
linguistic ability is impressive. He speaks French, Spanish and German fluently
and has a working knowledge of a smattering of other languages.

His fluency and in-depth knowledge of EU politics has gone down well with
European ministers who see Mr MacShane, a former journalist and trade union
leader, as an intellectual in the Continental mould or le grand fromage Anglais
- the Big Cheese Englishman.

Mr MacShane's vast Whitehall office is awash with European memorabilia,
including a French children's train made of coaches which read E-n-t-e- n-t-e
C-o-r-d-i-a-l-e, EU beer mats and a full sized European Union flag. The
minister's ardent commitment to the European project takes him to several EU
cities a week. But he despairs of Eurosceptic attitudes in Britain and the
anti-European press barons who he says print constant lies about Brussels
policies. He says opinion is so hostile, it often feels like "advocating
Christianity in a Rome full of Neros and Caligulas".

"People have been told continually by too many politicians in the past decade
that Europe is a bad thing," he says. "If you sow the seeds of anti-European
poison why should you be surprised when something very nasty sprouts out of it?"
He singles out Michael Howard, the Tory leader, for criticism. He says Mr Howard
has spent the past 12 years making "anti- Europeanism" the main political
ideology in British politics.

But the Tories' decision to drip-feed anti-Brussels feeling has created a far
more extreme political force which advocates immediate withdrawal from the EU.
Mr MacShane believes that in next month's European elections the UK Independence
Party, which wants the UK to withdraw from the EU, will gain more seats. "I
think UKIP will do well in the election," he says. "UKIP are the militant
expression of Tory hostility to Europe."

It is not only the Tories and right-wing press that are to blame for the
pervasive scepticism about Brussels, he says: the Government machine must also
bear some responsibility. "There is a default setting in Whitehall which is to
blame Brussels and forget about crazy Europe," he said.

However, Mr Blair's decision to call a referendum on the EU constitution means
that forgetting about "crazy Europe" is no longer an option. "Every Government
minister will have to start making the case for Europe," says Mr MacShane. He
predicts the Government will get a very clear yes vote but warns that the
consequences of losing would be very serious.

"The referendum has to be fought in a cool way, a relaxed way, a witty way," he
says. "The Government will have to spend serious money. I don't think we need
three party leaders and a couple of big business bosses and trade union general
secretaries announcing to people how they should vote."

Yet barely two months ago, the minister, along with Mr Blair, was arguing
vehemently against holding a referendum. On 29 March he declared in the House of
Commons that those calling for an EU poll were "the gravediggers of
parliamentary democracy". Was he completely out of the loop over the Prime
Minister's sudden change of heart? Mr MacShane avoids the question but hints
that he was not. He maintains he was involved in discussions with the Foreign
Secretary, Jack Straw, about the referendum policy six months before the Prime
Minister's decision to hold one. "We sat in this room and Jack's room playing
some cards with all the other colleagues discussing this non-stop since last
autumn," he said.

At this point there is the sound of polished shoes on marble flagstones and a
knock at the door of the minister's grand office. It is the British ambassador
to Turkey. "Another day, another ambassador," says the minister, who, with his
shirt hanging out of his trousers, leaps up from the sofa to greet our man in
Ankara. "Peter is one of the most brilliant dips. He is the ambassador in Turkey
but he's much cleverer than that," he gushes. "He is a bit more than that. He is
one of the giants of the Foreign Office." The ambassador looks pleased and
plonks himself down in an armchair where he remains for the rest of the
interview.

Denis MacShane has not always welcomed ambassadors to his office for chats. The
former BBC journalist, whose father, a Polish army officer, came to Britain
after the war, was arrested in 1982 for smuggling cash to underground trade
unions in Warsaw. In a John le Carre-style operation, the future minister ate
the address of his destination before his capture. "I was taking money to the
underground trade union from the European trade union movement to help pay for
its printing operation," he said. "I had lots of $ 100 bills. I had got rid of
the money before I was arrested. I had the address I had to take them to which I
had to tear up and swallow. It was only 10 grand. You had to shove it in your
pockets."

His father, Jan Matyjaszek, fled to Scotland after the war where he married
Isobel MacShane, and it was his mother's name that the minister later adopted.
Mr MacShane is delighted about Poland's recent admission to the EU, and he
extols the benefits of membership. But on the tricky question of who the new
European Commission president should be, he is less forthcoming. He is shy about
endorsing Chris Patten, the former Tory MP who is a respected EU commissioner,
and says the choice will be up to Mr Blair and other senior political leaders.

"I am a personal friend of Chris: I am an enormous admirer of him. I am not sure
that having a Commission president helps move one way or another European debate
inside the country from which he or she comes," he says.

Mr MacShane is naturally generous about his political colleagues from across the
divide. He says he appreciates the collegiate spirit of the House of Commons,
which rallied to support him after the recent death of his daughter Clare,
daughter of Carol Barnes, the newsreader, in a skydiving accident.

"I got stacks of letters, some e-mails from lots of people. It was very very
important to both Carol and myself. From Michael Howard and Charlie Kennedy and
obviously Tony and Jack and all the Labour friends," he says. "The House of
Commons is a very important family to belong to when something happens to you.
There are a number of people here at all levels who have lost children and it is
not a club you ever want to join. The hugs and messages are still coming in."

The minister keeps a copy of his daughter's diary in his office. She was 24 when
she died in Australia after her parachute failed to open on her 200th skydive.
"She wrote," he says, proudly, but in a voice tinged with sadness. "It must have
been in the genes: scribble, scribble, scribble."

THE CV

Name: Denis MacShane

Age: 56

Family: Married, four children. Daughter, deceased, from earlier relationship

Education: Merton College, Oxford; Birkbeck, University of London

1969: BBC producer

1978: President, National Union of Journalists

1980: Policy director, International Metalworkers Federation in Geneva

1992: Director, European Policy Institute

1994: MP for Rotherham

1997: PPS, Foreign and Commonwealth Office

2001: Under-Secretary of State, Foreign Office

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              10 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

DEAR MIRROR: UKIP IS NO JOKE

BYLINE: NIGEL FARAGE MEP UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 139 words


I CAN only assume Brian Reade's article (Union Jackasses, May 27) was intended
as a joke.

Sadly it misfired.

I'm sure many within the party will take issue with his suggestion that UKIP
stands for U Kill Immigrants, not least our many members from the ethnic
minorities, including a number of Euro candidates and local councillors. He is
also wrong to suggest that UKIP is a single-issue party. We have a full
manifesto covering all areas of policy.

When it comes to Europe we want two things. First, the free trade agreement we
thought we had signed up to in 1973, not a political superstate with an army, a
flag, a constitution and a police force.

The second is a Britain which is governed by the British people for the British
people, whatever their race or religion.

Nigel Farage MEP UK Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              11 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 31, 2004

JOAN'S A PARTY GIRL

BYLINE: Rikki Brown

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 32 words


JOAN Collins has announced she's backing the UKIP party. It's believed this is
the first time she's become involved with a political movement since she helped
form the suffragettes.


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              12 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

Tories denounce rivals as 'little Englanders'

BYLINE: Greg Hurst, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 615 words


MICHAEL HOWARD has told Tories to denounce the UK Independence Party as "Little
Englanders" and "cranks and political gadflies" amid concern at its growing
support in the European elections.

Conservatives are being urged to confront supporters thinking of voting for UKIP
to protest against the EU, saying that they would waste their vote on a fringe
party unable to stand up for Britain.

The move comes as Mr Howard prepares to take on UKIP publicly to try to halt its
upward march in opinion polls and a recurrence of disunity into his ranks over
Europe, after he was forced to suspend four Tory peers for endorsing UKIP's
message.

A 14-page briefing paper on UKIP, drafted by Conservative Research and
Development and leaked to The Times, tells party activists that as a minor party
UKIP stands no chance of delivering the change in Europe which Britain needs.

Only the Conservatives can make a difference, it argues, as the only mainstream
party that opposes a federal Europe, the European constitution and the euro.

Mr Howard is expected to deploy similar arguments tomorrow when he visits the
South Coast to deliver his first major attack on UKIP of the campaign during a
speech on Europe.

The Tory leader echoed some of its arguments yesterday, when he portrayed UKIP
as extremists who wanted to withdraw from the EU, and Labour and the Lib Dems as
extremists who wanted to transfer more power to Brussels, with the Conservatives
in the middle. Mr Howard also emphasised on BBC Radio 4's The World This Weekend
his proposal to seek the return of overseas aid and fisheries policy from
Brussels to national control.

Tory candidates said that they were sent the dossier last week after the first
opinion poll evidence suggesting that support for UKIP had risen during the
campaign, mainly at the Tories' expense.

UKIP claims to be a home for Eurosceptics but in reality it is "full of cranks
and political gadflies", not a serious party, riddled with in-fighting and
conspiracy theorists with some members who have had links to the Far Right, the
document says.

Under a section headed "Cranks in their ranks" it lists Robert Kilroy Silk, the
former BBC presenter and UKIP candidate, links with the controversial historian
David Irving, the publicist Max Clifford and UKIP's London mayoral candidate,
Frank Maloney.

Another section attacks UKIP's policy of withdrawal from the EU, saying that
this would put Britain in the position of Norway, having to sign up to EU
directives to access its single market but with no say over how they are
decided.

It lists benefits of EU membership that would be lost: cheaper prices and
tariff-free trade in the single market, cheaper air travel, freedom to work and
live in EU countries and EU-funded study or training for 10,000 British students
annually.

Membership gives Britain more power to agree trade deals and deal with pollution
or terrorism, it says.

"A vote for UKIP is a vote for the Little Englanders. A vote for Labour or the
Lib Dems is a vote for the Little Europeans. Only the Conservatives can offer a
Britain that can be proud of itself, proud in Europe and proud in the world," it
says.

Elsewhere the briefing analyses the voting record of UKIP's three MEPs, accusing
them of inconsistency and missing key votes such as on the EU budget.

The strategy has dismayed some Tory candidates, who told The Times that MEPs'
voting records were of no use for doorstep campaigning or that UKIP should be
congratulated for helping to win the promise of a referendum but told that its
task is done.

Independents' day, page 10

William Rees-Mogg, page 16

Letters, page 17


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

UKIP's rise is no surprise: voters are truly worried

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 1373 words


THE PIECRUST never knows how the pie is cooking. That is true for business, for
politics, even for religion. It is a long way from the shopfloor to the
boardroom, from the polling booth to the Cabinet table, from the parish church
to the Archbishop's throne. It demands a leap of imagination for the leaders of
any large group to understand the shifting moods of their followers, or
potential followers.

All one can do is to ask leaders to listen. They pay a high price when they do
not.

If the mail gets through, and the voting papers get printed, the European
elections will take place on June 10. The leaders of the three main parties seem
all to have been taken by surprise by the surge and support for the UK
Independence Party. Yet that has been a probability for many months.

On January I had lunch with Nigel Farage, the MEP who is one of the leaders of
UKIP; he is a perfectly rational politician. He told me that UKIP expected to
double its 1999 vote, when it won 7 per cent of the poll. The YouGov polls in
The Daily Telegraph are suggesting that they may do better than that, and will
get 18 to 20 per cent, possibly overtaking the Liberal Democrats.

UKIP's level of support applied only to the European elections. Voters do not
see them as an ordinary political party for the purposes of local government or
Westminster elections. It is seen as a single-issue party, but as relevant to
the European elections, where, it is in a strong position. Two of the major
parties want closer integration in Europe and have supported the draft European
constitution, subject, in the Government's case, to successful negotiation of
their "red lines".

The Conservative Party is indeed opposed to the European constitution, but wants
to stay in Europe as a member of the existing EU. Although some of the other
minor parties have Eurosceptic policies, UKIP is the obvious party for those who
want to get out of the EU altogether.

This may well be a bad idea, as I think it is, but the negotiation for the
European constitution has made it a powerful one. Although the constitution is
still being negotiated, the current drafts are altogether unacceptable; they
would create a United States of Europe, they would deprive Britain of national
independence, they would destroy our sovereign democracy. The British would be
governed in detail from Brussels; British voters would never again be able to
turn out their real Government, any more than the voters of Massachusetts can
turn out the President of the United States.

Most of the voters have not read the constitution, in any of its drafts, but
they have listened to the debate and have understood the broad themes of the
constitution. They get the point when the German Foreign Minister, Joschka
Fischer, says:

"Creating a single European state bound by one constitution is the decisive task
of our time."

The polls show that the majority of voters are opposed to losing British
independence. The YouGov poll in last Monday's Telegraph asked the question: "If
a referendum was held now, how would you vote?" Twenty-one per cent replied in
favour of the new constitution; 47 per cent against; 26 per cent did not know
and 6 per cent would not vote.

It does not at all follow that those who would vote against the constitution in
a referendum also want to leave Europe. Some voters who would not really want to
get out of Europe will vote UKIP to put a shot across the Government's bows,
just as some Scots who do not really want complete separation vote for the
Scottish National Party.

UKIP, and to a lesser extent, the Conservatives, will also have an advantage
from the turnout, which is expected to be low. If the turnout were only 25 per
cent, but UKIP could win the support of 5 per cent of the electorate, and get
all of them to vote, then UKIP would win the 20 per cent of the poll that YouGov
has suggested is a possibility.

Most Conservative voters are Eurosceptic, in differing degrees. Conservatives
have the argument that they are the alternative government, and UKIP is not.
They have the strong point, even for extreme Eurosceptics, that a Conservative
vote is a real political act, but a vote for UKIP is a mere gesture. It is
possible that UKIP will take most of its votes from the Conservatives, but that
the Conservatives will still win the European elections, because Conservative
voters are more steamed up than Labour voters, whose morale is low. The Lib Dems
may gain support from Iraq, but lose it on Europe.

Both the local and the European elections look depressing for Labour.
Canvassers, who are themselves in short supply, are reporting that more voters
than ever are openly saying they will not vote, because they are "fed up with
politics and politicians". These are deliberate abstentions, not a mere
reluctance to be bothered.

In the early days of new Labour, Alastair Campbell used to keep a grid, a
schedule of dates that forecast the sequence of major news stories, and helped
to create a narrative favourable to the Government. It is a funny sort of grid
that his successors in Downing Street have created, though most of the news
items were already scheduled before Mr Campbell left. The narrative is a Gothic
tale of doom and disaster.

On June 10 there will be local, mayoral and European elections. The Labour Party
will either do badly or very badly, though Ken Livingstone will probably keep
the mayoralty of London. The local government results will be counted on the
11th, and will provide stories of big Labour losses for the weekend press.

The British European election results will also be bad for Labour; they will be
announced at the same time as the other 24 European nations, some of whom vote
on Sundays. These will appear at length in the papers on Monday and Tuesday,
June 14 and 15. If they are very bad they will be accompanied by more stories
about the possible resignation of Tony Blair. We shall hear more of John
Prescott's "tectonic plates".

On the Thursday and Friday, June 17 and 18, the Prime Minister will be attending
the summit that is supposed to reach final agreement on the European
constitution. There may be further disagreement on the formula for qualified
majority voting, in which case Mr Blair would escape the odium of having to veto
the treaty. Otherwise the Prime Minister will have to decide whether to pretend
that his red lines -if he gets them are a sufficient protection for British
independence, or veto the treaty and come home as the champion of British
sovereignty.

In either case, he faces a month in which he will be under unparalleled pressure
at a time of unparalleled weakness, even aside from Iraq.

I am tempted to think that Mr Blair will take the most favourable political
course. Early in the morning of Saturday, June 19, the heads of government will
break up, bleary-eyed; Tony Blair will say that he has not been able to get his
red lines, that he cannot sign the treaty, and will come home to universal
applause, waving the flag of St George.

That would make sense of his decision to call a referendum that he never had any
chance of winning. It would also obey one of his consistent rules, never to
leave a popular issue to the Opposition. The European constitution is a strong
issue; it is irretrievably unpopular, and the Conservatives are on the right
side of it.

However, my friends tell me that I am too cynical, that Tony Blair is more
interested in his place in history, and in his peculiar transplant operation of
putting Britain at the heart of Europe, than he is in winning the next election
or even surviving in Downing Street. They also say that the European governments
would be dreadfully annoyed, and that Romano Prodi, President of the European
Commission, would speak sharply to the Prime Minister if he tried any such
dastardly trick as defending British democracy.

If he does veto the treaty, Tony Blair may save himself and the Labour Party. He
will remember that John Major signed the Maastricht Treaty that paved the way
for this constitution, split his party and put the Conservatives in opposition
for at least two Parliaments. That is a warning for Europe-minded Prime
Ministers.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

Selecting which party to support in next month's European elections

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 702 words


From Mrs Barbara Locher

Sir, It is not just MEPs who seem to feel they are above canvassing for votes
(letter, May 26).

We moved here about two and a half years ago and should have welcomed some sign
of life from the political parties active in this area. We have had dozens of
telephone calls from people determined to renew expensive bits of our house for
us, but no communication whatsoever from any of those who claim to know how to
make our lives better.

I will vote next month (my husband is not enfranchised despite the large sums he
donates in the form of taxation), but it would have been with much more
enthusiasm if I could have voted for people and not for anonymous parties.

Yours faithfully, B. LOCHER, 53a Southwood Road, Hayling Island, Hampshire PO11
9PT.

May 26.

From Mr Patrick Rattigan

Sir, Research on the work of the European Parliament provides this snapshot.

On March 30, 626 MEPs voted on 650 amendments in 50 minutes. Understandably,
few, if any, had a clue as to what they were voting for and rubber-stamped the
party line. If any felt like wasting their breath they could have used the
standard 90 seconds "debating time" that each MEP is allocated. If they overrun
they are cut off.

On June 10 the number of members will increase to 732: the UK's number will drop
from 87 to 78. We will have one vote out of 25 in the Council of Ministers and
just over 10 per cent in the Parliament.

This is Tony Blair's being at the heart of Europe.

Since we joined what we thought was a common market, we have had over 100,000
rules, regulations and edicts foisted upon us by the Eurocrats.

We are currently paying, depending on which estimate is believed, £25 million to
£60 million per day to be in this chaotic, corrupt, incompetent club.

Yours faithfully, PAT RATTIGAN, 1 Quarrybank, Chesterfield S41 0HH.

May 29.

From Mr Clifford Sharp

Sir, Today I received the papers enabling me to vote by post in the European
election. Instructions included:

(4) Refold the Ballot Paper only where it has been folded (5) Put the Ballot
Paper into envelope A To comply with (4) made (5) impossible to achieve, so I
telephoned the number given for those who needed help. It was a wrong number.

Yours faithfully, CLIFFORD SHARP, Wyke Hill House, Gillingham, Dorset SP8 4NQ.

knatter@zoo.co.uk

May 27.

From Mr Brian Lee

Sir, As a supporter of the UK Independence Party for several years, I have never
been able to understand why the party is commonly referred to in the media as
"right-wing" (report, May 26). Our common belief is in a liberal democracy, and
that is not possible within the EU, even as it is now.

Any large organisation has to be highly regulated and centrally controlled. The
larger it gets, the more this will happen. The political cultures of France and
Germany have evolved a governmental system which is anathema to our type of
democracy.

It is not right wing to want to get out of it, just good sense if one wants to
live in a society with a reasonable amount of freedom.

Yours faithfully, BRIAN LEE, 104 Woodfield Road, Hadleigh, Essex SS7 2ET.

May 26.

From Mr Nigel Draper

Sir, The leader of Labour's MEPs, Gary Titley, says: "We have always known UKIP
were a party of nasty extremists" (report, May 27).

If he is referring to the UK Independence Party's policy of advocating
withdrawal from the EU, his spiteful words will simply alienate his party
further from the majority of the electorate who agree with UKIP and are so
clearly now responding to the clearest election campaign being run.

Yours sincerely, NIGEL DRAPER, 22 Chapman Close, Potton, Bedfordshire SG19 2PL.

nigeldraper@aol.com

May 28.

From Mr M. H. Despard

Sir, Recently, on the subject of a constitution for Europe, you put forward the
sensible suggestion that what is needed is a workable document concentrating on
the needs of a tennis club with 25 members and a dozen or so rackets (leading
article, May 20). From everything one hears of the goings-on in Brussels you
have grossly underestimated the number of rackets.

Yours faithfully, M. H. DESPARD, 2 Redcliffe Mews, SW10 9JU.

May 27.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

HOWARD SACKS PEERS FOR ENDORSING UKIP;
 ELECTIONS CONSERVATIVE LEADER WITHDRAWS WHIP FROM FOUR MEMBERS OF THE

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR Joan Collins being welcomed by Robert
Kilroy-Silk at a UKIP news conference in Nottingham last Tuesday TREVOR SMITH/PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 606 words


Michael Howard took swift action yesterday against a group of Tory peers who had
signed an open letter backing the UK Independence Party.

Four of the offenders were instantly expelled from the Tory group in the House
of Lords, but the fifth was spared after making a public apology.

The five Tories - Baroness Cox of Queensbury, Lord Willoughby de Broke, Lord
Pearson of Rannoch, Lord Stevens of Ludgate and Lord Laing of Dunphail - had
joined seven crossbench peers in an appeal to supporters of the mainstream
parties to switch to the UKIP on 10 June.

Their letter said: "Only thus will the main parties be persuaded that their
policies towards the European Union are not in the national interest. It is to
that national interest that we all owe our allegiance."

Lord Laing of Dunphail relented yesterday afternoon, and put out a statement
saying that "on reflection" he should not have signed the letter and called on
voters to vote Conservative. The other four signatories had the Tory whip
withdrawn, meaning that they are no longer officially part of the Conservative
group in the Lords.

The Tory leader in the Lords, Lord Strathclyde, said: "It is unacceptable for
any Conservative member to urge voters to support anyone other than a
Conservative candidate. A vote for any party other than the Conservatives on 10
June would be to let Tony Blair off the hook."

On Tuesday, Mr Howard will deliver a speech restating his party's position on
Europe. He is expected to suggest that his party stands in the middle ground
between the UKIP, which wants Britain out of the EU, and Labour, which wants to
be, in Tony Blair's phrase, "at the heart of Europe."

Labour has interpreted Mr Howard's decision to talk about Europe as a sign that
the Tories have been shaken by a loss of support to the UKIP.

Conservative Party managers acknowledge that the UKIP, which received a
celebrity endorsement last week from Joan Collins, will take a "chunk of the
vote", but insist that Mr Howard has not changed his policy or his election
strategy.

On the same day that Mr Howard makes his Europe speech, Ken Livingstone will
formally publish the manifesto on which he hopes to be re-elected as Mayor of
London.

Mr Livingstone will pitch his appeal at Liberal Democrat voters, telling them
that their differences with him are less important than what they have in
common, and that their real enemy is Stephen Norris, the Tory candidate. The
Liberal Democrats will interpret his remarks as proving their claim that their
candidate, Simon Hughes, is the only one who can beat Mr Livingstone.

Meanwhile, Christopher Leslie, a Constitutional Affairs minister has dismissed
opposition complaints about the introduction of postal voting in the North of
England as "wildly overstated".

Conservatives and Liberal Democrats have warned that delays in printing and
distribution ballot papers could set off a series of Florida-style court
battles, as the losing candidates in close-run contests seek a rerun on the
grounds that some electors were denied their votes.

John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, went against the advice of the
Electoral Commission when he decided that the elections in five English regions
would be by postal vote only. All ballot papers are due to be delivered by
tomorrow.

"There is a lot of political motivation in some quarters to try to drag this
down and say the sky is falling in. Actually I believe we will see millions more
people participating because we are making voting easier and more convenient for
people," Mr Leslie told the BBC's Today programme yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              16 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  May 30, 2004

FourTory peers expelled for backing anti-Europe party

BYLINE: JONATHAN OLIVER

SECTION: FB; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 429 words


MICHAEL HOWARD faced a crisis over Europe last night after five top Tory peers
urged voters to back a rival party that wants Britain to withdraw completely
from the EU.

Four of the five, led by Margaret Thatcher's close friend Lord Pearson of
Rannoch, were immediately thrown out of the Conservative Party for putting their
names to a letter endorsing the UK Independence Party.

The peers' revolt will be a major headache for Mr Howard, who has tried to
persuade voters that the Tories are the only serious Euro-sceptic party in next
month's elections.

The rebel letter said: 'We urge those who normally vote for one of the main
political parties to lend their vote at the European elections on June 10 to the
UK Independence Party.

'Only thus will the main parties be persuaded that their policies towards the
European Union are not in the national interest. It is to that national interest
that we all owe our allegiance.' The defection by a such a large group of
high-profile Tories will be a major boost for the UKIP, aristocrat Lord
Willoughby de Broke and Lord Stevens, the former Express newspapers chief, had
the Tory whip removed yesterday the highest sanction available to party bosses.
The fifth rebel, businessman Lord Laing of Dunphail, was not disciplined after
he decided to retract his backing for the letter. An unrepentant Lord Pearson
said: 'We have failed to persuade Michael Howard over Europe. The only party
that can save our democracy is the Conservative Party, but we hope a significant
vote for the UKIP can make Michael Howard see sense.' Lord Strathclyde, the Tory
leader in the Lords, tried to put a lid on the damage done by the mass
desertion.

'It is unacceptable for any Conservative member to urge voters to support anyone
other than a Conservative candidate at the European elections on June 10,' he
said.

Labour sought to capitalise on the Tory disarray. Foreign Secretary Jack Straw
said: 'This extraordinary intervention by Conservative peers will bring further
chaos to a Tory policy already beset by panic over UKIP.' The UKIP had a
high-profile boost at a photocall last week when actress Joan Collins announced
she will be the party's patron and embraced former TV presenter Robert
Kilroy-Silk, who is standing as a UKIP Euro candidate in the East Midlands.

which is hoping to benefit from growing public anger over the European Union.

Lord Pearson, former Minister Baroness Cox of Queensbury, PARTY TIME: Supporters
of the UKIP Joan Colllins and Robert Kilroy-Silk embrace last week PA

END

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              17 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 30, 2004

Business & Media: Pollsters under fire from MPs

BYLINE: Nick Mathiason

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 279 words


LEADING MPs are calling for a government investigation into opinion polling
firms over fears that 'questionable methodology' is skewing the political
process and tarnishing the industry's reputation.

The move has won cross-party support following the tabling of an early day
motion last week by Labour MP, Barry Sheerman.

Concern has been triggered by recent findings from internet poll firms that have
wildly contrasted the fortunes of minor political parties such as the UK
Independence Party. There is widespread fear that self-regulation has failed.

'How come the UKIP goes from 14 per cent one week to 6 per cent a fortnight
later?' asked one industry insider. There are complaints that newer internet
surveys, which are commissioned by virtually every national newspaper, have
questionable methodology and a 'lack of transparency' .

'Rather than based on scientific research, there is a serious concern about
cowboys who can launch a poll to say anything you like,' said Sheerman.

He said that his motion had won support from four chairmen of select committees.

Sheerman is also concerned that some polling firms have close links to public
relations companies. YouGov.com, for instance, was founded with a stake from
Bell Pottinger.

A statement from the Market Research Society, the world's largest international
membership organisation, said: 'MRS notes the sentiments of Barry Sheerman MP.

'The MRS points out that far from a decline, there has been a considerable
strengthening in self-regulation in recent years and the MRS continues to work
with the industry to ensure that the highest professional standards are
maintained.'


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 30, 2004

Business & Media: Media: PETER PRESTON ON THE MEDIA True horror of Europe gets
Tories in a muddle

BYLINE: PETER PRESTON

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 815 words


CONGRATULATIONS, Mrs Frankenstein, it's lovely, bouncing, little monster. Thus,
in a trice, the UK Independence Party vaulted to embarrassed prominence last
week, pushing the Liberal Democrats into fourth place on one a European election
opinion poll. Thus, suddenly, our thunderous right-wing press started to stammer
or look away.

Twelve Strasbourg seats or more for the 'out of Europe' party, if YouGov in the
Daily Telegraph spoke sooth? The Telegraph itself wasn't exactly ecstatic. The
UKIP, it muttered, could be portrayed as 'kooky, inept and hopelessly divided';
and there might - mutter, mutter - be 'a measure of truth in all those charges'.
But strangely, 'the voters don't seem to care'. Strangely, this kooky gaggle -
'backed by no major party, newspaper or politician' - seemed to be taking off.

The key word there, of course, is newspaper. Consider the irony and the agony.
On the one hand, UKIP, its front shelf stocked with Joan Collins and Robert
Kilroy-Silk, was making such strides because voters 'wanted to send a signal to
all parties about Brussels's interference in our national affairs'. On the other
hand, no brave national newspaper editor could openly claim the credit for
lighting its fires.

On the one hand, the news about the supposed horror of Euro-meddle was finally
getting through. On the other hand, it seemed to be causing disproportionate
damage to Conservative prospects because, as Professor Tony King painstakingly
explained, they take support 'from among people who are normally Tory voters'.

Success and failure quaffed in a single cup. On the one hand, in Telegraph
terms, the ceaseless, naturally non- kooky toil of Christopher Booker, Ambrose
Evans-Pritchard, Charles Moore and other chefs was reaping its just reward. On
the other hand, it was also kicking Michael Howard in the nether regions.
Something slightly agley here, surely?

One thing that's wholly awry in this matter, of course, is rational truth. The
plain truth is that without the efforts of the Sun, Mail, Times, Telegraph and
Express (and all their Sunday sisters) the UKIP would not even be a pimple on
Joan Collins's nose. The plain truth is that modern British Euro-scepticism is
built and bulwarked in Fleet Street, facts tossed like fat on the blaze. Even on
the morning after the poll, The Sun was still at it, with a leader entitled
'Clear off, EU' (over random breath tests, which weren't going to happen).

But now that, apparently, the message is received and understood, now that a
mighty force promising to take Britain out of the union arises, what have to
prophets to say for themselves? What do they actually advocate? Mumble, mumble.
The UKIP surge is 'a howl of impotent rage', according to that champion howler,
the Mail . 'The tragedy is that this frustration is showing in support for a
party whose main policy - total withdrawal from Europe - is certainly not in
Britain's best interests.'

The only alternative, according to the Telegraph , was for Mr Howard 'to offer a
plausible vision of a self-governing Britain'. (They appeared to mean one still
in Europe but sitting on the edge, whistling a happy tune). Then again,
according to Richard Littlejohn in the Sun , we could 'settle for a return to
the old free trade area' we knew and didn't much love. The Times and the Express
, just as interestingly, played Brer Rabbit and studied their fluffy tails in
unaccustomed silence.

It was a magically revealing moment. 'Howard will lose voters to the UKIP unless
he toughens', the old-style tough Tebbit warned Telegraph readers. But apart
from generalised snarlings, where would the new toughs get going to? (Especially
since the small print of YouGov found only 13 per cent of us much interested in
Europe elections to begin with).

The referendum, when it comes, will have an 'in or out?' element to it. Any UKIP
sees to that. And what will the sceptics say then? Mr Murdoch only backs
winners. Quitting the union isn't a winner. The Telegraph may or may not change
its mind, owner permitting. (Remember that Max Hastings, Conrad Black's first
appointment there, never believed that 'Britain could stand permanently aloof
from Europe or - more eccentric still - forge an alternative relationship with
the United States').

The last editor of the Daily Mail , David English, used to characterise himself
as a 'pro-European'; only seven short years back, the last proprietor of the
Mail , Vere Rothermere, sat on the Lords' crossbenches and backed Blair. And the
goose-stepping boss of the Express group used to take tea with Tony until a few
Black Mondays ago.

Nothing, in short, is forever in this game. But the most migraine-provoking
twist of the lot for an editor is to wake up one morning and find a little
monster in nappies parked on his front door mat. Please sir. . . what should I
do with it, sir?


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 30, 2004

Tories throw out rebel peers for backing UKIP

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff: Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 614 words


MICHAEL HOWARD was forced yesterday to expel four rebel Tory peers from the
party after they declared their backing for the far-right UK Independence party.

The coup for the fringe party - which advocates withdrawal from the EU and has
run a heavily anti-immigrant campaign - marks the most serious internal crisis
over Europe since John Major withdrew the whip from Maastricht

rebels.

Yesterday an unrepentant Lord Pearson of Rannoch - widely regarded as the
ringleader of the peers' plot - accused the leadership of behaving like esilly
prefects', adding that he found out he had had the Tory whip withdrawn only when
journalists rang him up.

Pearson told The Observer: 'The abrogation of our democracy, the breaking of a
great pact with the British people for this corrupt octopus in Brussels, is far
more important than any sort of party loyalty.'

The furore caps an astonishing few weeks for UKIP, in which it has doubled its
standing in the polls. But while the Tories have been hardest hit, its rise
poses a threat to all mainstream parties, epitomising a backlash against
eprofessional politicians'

- and worrying levels of support for extreme policies on immigration. One Tory
backbencher said it was being privately compared to the 'BNP in suits'.

Michael Ancram, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, launched a furious attack on the
party in an interview with The Observer, dismissing it as 'xenophobic' and using
'unacceptable' language about immigrants in its manifesto, which describes
Britain as being 'full up'.

'If people want to leave the EU, then we are not the party who is going to
deliver that: we will deliver a better Europe,' he said. Although Howard will
make a keynote speech on Europe on Tuesday,

he is expected to refrain from direct attacks on the UKIP. Instead, Tory MPs
have been issued with briefing packs arguing that only the Conservatives have a
rational Eurosceptic

position.

A YouGov poll for the Daily Telegraph yesterday showed UKIP has more than
doubled its support among the wider electorate from 2 to 5 per cent: the BNP now
has 2 per cent.

Howard has recently emphasised his Eurosceptic credentials more strongly,
pledging to seize back control of Britain's fishing rights. But he has not gone
far enough for the rebels, who tried to persuade him to threaten to renegotiate
the founding treaties of the EU - paving the way for withdrawal.

The plot emerged when UKIP published a letter signed by five Tory peers -
Pearson, Baroness Cox of Queensbury, Lord Laing of Dunphail, Lord Stevens of
Ludgate, and Lord Willoughby de Broke - and seven crossbenchers, urging votes to
switch temporarily to UKIP in June's European elections 'in the national
interest'.

Laing later withdrew his name under pressure from the leadership, but the other
four will lose the whip.

Tony Blair will move to capitalise on the fiasco, portraying UKIP as the
'Militant Tendency' of the Conservative party as campaigning steps up for Euro,
local and London mayoral elections on 10 June.

Launching his manifesto on Tuesday for the London mayoral election, Ken
Livingstone will try to insulate himself from anti-Labour protest votes by
insisting there is little to choose between himself and the Liberal Democrats on
issues from war to the congestion charge. Lib Dem candidate Simon Hughes has
fought a surprisingly lacklustre campaign and Livingstone is targeting the votes
of his supporters.

Bush silent

on Iraq

Blair prepares to capitalise as Howard is shaken by a crisis over Europe

Like the BNP

n but in blazers

Focus, page 18

PLUS:

Andrew Rawnsley, 29

Peter Preston, Business, 6


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 30, 2004

It feels like the BNP - only in blazers: Gaby Hinsliff reports on how
anti-immigrant arguments could win the UK Independence party 12 European
Parliament seats: Andrew Rawnsley, page 29; Peter Preston, Business, page 6

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1577 words


WRAPPED IN HER lilac pashmina, the young civil servant getting off the bus in
the sleepy market town of Witney, Oxfordshire, does not seem a promising target.

Undeterred, Roger Knapman bounces forward, pushing a UK Independence party
leaflet and asking if she wants to 'keep Britain ruled by the British'. Sure
enough, she does: she knows his party favours withdrawing from Europe and is
apparently enthusiastic. 'Save our supplements, that's what it's about,' she
says, confiding that she takes echinacea to ward off colds and she's heard that
the EU is banning herbal remedies. 'If they take it off the shelves, what's
going to happen to people with MS or whatever?'

Welcome to the campaign trail with what Knapman - leader of the UK Independence
party - claims is now Britain's fastest- growing party, capitalising on a myriad
different half-understood tussles with Brussels. But there is precious little
about herbal remedies to be found in its latest leaflets, dropping through
letterboxes this weekend.

Under the headline 'Immigration soaring' , a cartoon depicts 'overcrowded
Britain', a shanty-town jumble of houses: across the sea, streams of eastern
European immigrants pour into an entrance labelled 'Channel Funnel'. Inside, the
leaflet adds: 'At last! A non-racist party that takes a firm line on
immigration.'

While Westminster obsesses over a far smaller threat from the BNP, UKIP is
poised to snatch up to 12 seats in the European Parliament in June's elections
with its anti-migrant policies - an end to economic migration, drastic curbs on
asylum-seeking, scares about immi grants overloading GPs' surgeries - and
anti-European sentiment.

So is this little more than the BNP in blazers, as its critics suggest - a
genteel, gin-and-Jag-belt version of the unsavoury messages peddled on council
estates by the far right - or does it reflect a legitimate disenchantment with
an over-mighty EU?

Knapman, a former Tory whip, furiously denies comparison with the BNP: 'Anyone
who joins UKIP has to say they are not a member of the BNP or racist groups.'

But Alan Sked, the London School of Economics professor who founded the party
before quitting after the last election, is not convinced: 'There's not much
difference in party programmes between them. The cliche is that the disaffected
working class will vote BNP and the disaffected lower middle class will vote
UKIP.'

Either way, UKIP's contra-tactics are working. It says it has quadrupled its
membership to 31,000: a recent YouGov poll put it three points ahead of the
Liberal Democrats, only five behind Labour and 13 behind the Tories among those
certain to vote in June - which YouGov's Peter Kellner believes is a better
predictor of what would happen on a low turnout than conventional polling, which
gives UKIP only 5 per cent.

'There is no evidence from anything we have done that this is a freak result,'
warns Kellner. 'If it carries on, the Tories are going to have a bad night.'

A CHANCE ENCOUNTER on a cruise ship helped to spark UKIP's journey from fringe
to centre stage. Dick Morris, former polling guru to Bill Clinton, was the guest
lecturer: a holidaying Knapman was in the audience. The two fell into
conversation, and Knapman says Morris still proffers tactical advice today -
mostly about 'snowball' politics, the art of creating momentum, which peaked for
UKIP last Tuesday when the Eurosceptic actress Joan Collins dramatically
endorsed the party.

But the snowball began rolling this spring, when former chatshow host Robert
Kilroy-Silk and his wife Jan dropped in for lunch with an old friend, the Earl
of Bradford, on holiday in Spain. As the two men debated politics, the Earl - a
UKIP stalwart - asked why the firmly Eurosceptic Kilroy-Silk had never
considered standing. A few phone calls later, Kilroy-Silk - a former Labour MP -
had been parachuted into the campaign.

He says he is getting a warm reception, particularly among fans of his
long-running chat show Kilroy - axed after he made comments about Arab
traditions deemed to be inflammatory.

'Whatever their ethnic origin, whatever their colour, whatever their creed, they
feel it's all ridiculous how we are all made to feel guilty about flying the
flag or being proud of our history and our customs,' he says.

As for immigration, he insists UKIP is no more extreme than those EU governments
who have imposed curbs on eastern European migrants: 'We are a tolerant country,
we want to keep it that way, but we want to be in control of our borders. I
don't want any truck with any racist ideology.'

So what exactly is it that these celebrities - and yesterday five Tory peers -
have endorsed?

The cover of UKIP's manifesto depicts three nappy-clad babies, adding: 'This is
their country - make sure it stays that way.' Inside, it proclaims five
essential rights for voters, including freedom from Brussels, freedom from crime
and freedom from 'overcrowding'. Britain, it says, is already 'bursting at the
seams', its towns near-gridlocked, its hospital waiting lists growing (official
statistics say they are falling).

The influx of immigrants 'adds considerably to our problems, increasing social
tensions', it adds: 'We cannot sustain this increase, which compares with a city
the size of Cambridge coming into Britain every six months.'

Perched on a chair in the village hall in Lechlade, a pretty Glouces tershire
town on the edge of the Cotswolds where he is holding a public meeting, Knapman
is unapologetic: 'There is a limit to the number of people we can take in on a
small island: it's just a numbers game.'

Behind him a series of posters, hand-lettered in coloured felt-tip, warns of
European perils from quota-hopping Spanish fishermen to bureaucracy. The
immigration and asylum poster notes: 'Here they abuse hosts' hospitality - not
dare in own country!'

OFFENDED? YOU shouldn't be, says Knapman: such political correctness is
suppressing proper debate on asylum. 'There's a climate laid down by a Hampstead
liberal establishment which has been accepted as the norm, and any view other
than this is somehow a bit quirky or rightwing or extremist,' he adds.

Yet tonight's meeting suggests UKIP is tapping into something deeper than just
anti-immigrant feeling. Chair David Bendall - a former Tory who defected under
John Major because he thinks 'the indigenous population should come first' - may
refer to a South African supporter as a 'second- class citizen' because she
wasn't born in Britain, but what the 50-strong crowd really laps up is Knapman's
colourful denunciation of Brussels waste and fraud, meddling bureaucrats and
crackpot laws - and, crucially, his insistence that all three mainstream parties
have let them down.

David Barnby, a 65-year-old from Witney, raises his hand to say he is leaving
the Tories because he thinks Michael Howard has gone soft on Europe. 'I wash my
hands of the Conservative party, because I can't trust anybody,' he says, to
vigorous applause. It is men such as Barnby who are causing sleepless nights at
Conservative Central Office - and triggered Lord Tebbit's plea last week for
Howard to harden his stance on Europe.

'They're running an aggressive campaign and it has had some impact,' admits one
veteran backbencher. 'The Tories recognise that - just as Labour recognises the
BNP are doing damage in their areas.'

Nor does the rise of anti-EU protest votes augur well for Labour's planned
referendum on the European constitution next year.

'They have got some quite good tunes and we on the pro-European side are not
talking a language people understand yet,' says Sunder Katwala, general
secretary of the think-tank Fabian Society.

But what really alarms Westminster is UKIP's claim to be different from the
'metropolitan elite' of professional politicians. Like the monkey who nearly
became Hartlepool's mayor, it is surfing a wave of resentment against mainstream
politics itself - so out of touch they never even saw him coming, says Knapman.
'Nobody even thought we could be beating the Liberal Democrats - possibly even
next week beating the Labour party, who knows? Changes can happen under people's
noses.'

Kilroy-Silk agrees: 'I have had a quarter of a million people through my
television studios in the past 15 years, and I was more in touch with public
opinion then than I ever was as an MP. Unless somebody addresses their concerns,
there's going to be a problem. They are looking for a voice.'

But have they really found it in UKIP or is it just this year's protest vote, a
free hit before voters make serious choices at next year's general election?

Kellner detects no sign of a UKIP breakthrough beyond the Euro elections: he
argues the Greens similarly claimed 15 per cent of the vote in 1989, only to
fizzle out. Katwala warns it would be 'suicidal of the Tories to be scared of
them', arguing they must keep trying to win moderate city seats.

But the crucial test for UKIP is whether a party for people who hate political
parties can hang on to its new-found supporters. Even Barnby confides later that
he isn't sure he'll join UKIP: 'I think I want to act outside a political
party.'

Instead, he is founding a society in honour of Tom Paine, the 18th- century
advocate of progressive taxation and the advancement of the working man - and
co-author of the French constitution. Perhaps UKIP should not count its
chickens.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 30, 2004

Comment: INSIDE POLITICS: Why 10 June could be independents' day: The real
significance of UKIP is whether the big parties will have the courage to
reinvigorate the case for being in the European Union

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1306 words


HOW HEARTENING it is to see the sterling traditions of British Europhobia being
well honoured. The late Sir James Goldsmith, proprietor of the Referendum Party,
was so dedicated to this sceptred isle that he could not bear to live on it,
campaigning to save Britannia from the ravishings of those scheming continentals
from his home in Mexico. True to that spirit, the UK Independence Party is proud
to present the celebrity support of Joan Collins, who complains that the euro
has increased the cost of running her house in St Tropez. Crinklier members of
UKIP may recall that the actress's substantial body of work includes the
Seventies' soft porn film The Stud . More than a quarter of a century on, age
has not withered her invincibility to embarrassment. When asked how she had
voted before her attachment to UKIP, it was without shame that Ms Collins
revealed she has not voted before because she was 'never in England at voting
time'.

That has been the historic problem for UKIP: few of those who agree with the
party's demand for instant and complete withdrawal from the EU appear to have
been in the country at voting time. If they have been, they have not exercised
their vote for UKIP. Depending on the poll and when and how the question has
been asked, between a quarter and nearly a half of people say they want to leave
the EU. Yet few have been willing to vote for the party that unambiguously
promises to do just that. When seats in the European Parliament were last
contested five years ago, UKIP could muster just 7 per cent of the vote.

One explanation is that the polls don't divine the complexities and
contradictions of British attitudes towards Europe. Telling a pollster that you
want out of the EU is a cost-free expression of disgruntlement with Brussels.
Confronted with the option of actually voting for a party that would take
Britain out, the vast majority have serious second thoughts. They express their
hearts to pollsters; they act with their heads when marking a ballot paper.

This explanation is not, of course, the diagnosis preferred by UKIP. As small
parties ever do, they have identified their problem as being an absence of
publicity.

Well, they can't complain about a lack of attention now. UKIP is the only party
that has been generating headlines about Europe during the current Euro election
campaign. Though UKIP pitches itself as the only alternative to a big party
cabal of Eurozealots, what has been conspicu ous by its absence during this
campaign is anyone from the big parties making the positive case for Europe. The
Lib Dems, though avowedly the most pro-European of parties, are not using the
elections to proselytise for Europe. Charles Kennedy has instead invited voters
to use the Euro elections as a referendum on Iraq. When Labour takes any time
out from bashing the Tories, ministers have made macho noises about the vigour
with which they are defending the Government's 'red lines' in the negotiations
over the constitution.

You can understand why they have adopted this tactic of bulldoggery. What you
are bound to wonder is whether ministers have grasped the risks latent in this
approach. Their defensive refrain plays into the fear, sedulously promoted by
UKIP and its fellow travellers, that Europe is a conspiracy against Britain.
Then there are the Conservatives. The reflex of being suspicious and hostile
towards Europe has become so congenital among Tories that I wonder whether most
of them can even remember how to make the fundamental argument for membership of
the EU.

IN THE ABSENCE of the main parties making the case for Europe, we should not be
surprised that UKIP is on a bit of roll. One YouGov poll last week suggested
that they have risen to 14 points for the Euro elections. Among respondents very
likely to vote, UKIP surged past the Lib Dems into third place at 18 points, not
far behind Labour.

I hazard that UKIP is drawing support from all over the place. The party is an
alternative receptacle to the Lib Dems - and also the BNP - for those looking
for somewhere to spit a protest vote. Labour strategists are right to worry
about a threat to some of their working-class support. A senior figure in UKIP -
if that is not a contradiction in terms - baldly describes their supporters as
'Cs and Ds'.

You get a flavour of the waters in which UKIP is trawling for support from the
headline points of the party's manifesto. 'The UK is already full up,' it
blares. 'We are bursting at the seams.' It's not fear of obesity that they are
playing to.

There's a similar tone on law and order. 'A UKIP Government will do whatever is
necessary to reduce crime and criminality to the levels of the 1950s.' Whatever
is necessary? The electric chair? Deportation? Sharia?

If you read the detail in their prospectus, you make a remarkable discovery. The
party's policies can be nuanced, even enlightened. 'We do not see the solution
(to crime) simply in terms of building more prisons and locking more people up.'
Do they assume most of their potential voters will not get beyond the demotic
sound-snarls to discover that the party can be quite thoughtful?

Some of the people involved with this party may not be in the least degree
funny, but UKIP's plans for government are intrinsically amusing because they
are never going to form one. Even Robert Kilroy-Silk surely does not believe
that he is going to become Britain's first tangerine-coloured Prime Minister?

And yet UKIP could still have a large impact on politics, especially if they
give a fright to the bigger parties. The Greens enjoyed a spike in support at
Euro-elections in the late Eighties. Though they soon fell back, this brief
triumph left the enduring legacy of forcing the bigger parties to sit up and
take notice of the environment.

The Goldsmith Referendum Party won not a single seat, and lost many deposits, in
1997. It did contribute to a climate which impelled the main parties to promise
referendums on entry into the European single currency; a commitment with
lasting and profound consequences. And was that a ghostly Goldsmithian chuckle
we heard when Tony Blair recently conceded to a referendum on the constitution?

UKIP can have an effect quite disproportionate to the quality of its arguments
and the real depth of its appeal. The Conservatives are the party made most
obviously jumpy as this rival looms over their right shoulder. It threatens to
leech away votes that the Tories would normally expect to belong to them. This
can change the balance of argument about Europe within the Conservative Party.
Since he became leader, Michael Howard has taken some of the shrillness out of
his party's scepticism and gathered Tories around the construct of a 'live and
let live' Europe.

UKIP threatens to unravel that position by articulating the clandestine impulse
of some Tories MPs and the far from secret desire of a lot of Conservative
activists.

MICHAEL HOWARD is expected to address himself to UKIP when he makes a speech on
Europe this week. Will the Tory leader focus his fire on them by condemning the
folly of withdrawing from the EU? Or will he choose to follow the advice of Lord
Tebbit to take the Tories in a more UKIPish direction?

This is a revealing and important test for the Tory leader. And a moment with
consequences going beyond him and his party. If the Conservatives answer the
UKIP challenge by striking a more phobic posture, then experience suggests that
Labour will struggle to resist the temptation to cover its back by sliding in
the same direction.

The most significant thing about UKIP will be how the big parties respond to it.
They can be jolted into reinvigorating the case for being in the European Union
- or they can run scared of Joan Collins and Robert Kilroy-Silk.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

4 TORY PEERS GET EU SACK

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


FOUR Tory peers have been kicked out for backing the anti-Europe UK Independence
Party at next month's poll.

Baroness Cox, Lord Willougby, Lord Pearson, Lord Stevens wanted to pressure Tory
leader Michael Howard into pulling Britain out of the EU if he wins power.

A fifth rebel, Lord Laing, can stay in the party after a U-turn.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              23 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

The new Addams family

BYLINE: Richard Woods

SECTION: Features; News; 21

LENGTH: 1713 words


Buoyed up with a cheesy makeover, the UK Independence party is on a roll. But
how scary are they really? Richard Woods reports

Scene 2004, take five. A group of foreign men are plotting to overthrow Britain
and create a European superstate. Enter Joan Collins, as Lady Littlebritain, her
bosom heaving.

Lady Littlebritain: "Jacques, we can't go on like this. It's over. Finished.

Comprends?"

Jacques Chirac: "But mon amour, cherie, huggums ..."

LB: "Shut it, Jacques. You never really cared. And as for you, Gerhard ..."

(She tosses her mane and snarls with blood red lips.) Gerhard Schroder:
"Wunderbar -you're so sexy when you're angry. Schnell, schnell, loosen my
lederhosen."

LB: "Listen Fritz, your Euro dreams are kaput!"

She knocks them both senseless with a large fresh cod.

Cut to idyllic English countryside with yokels watching cricket and drinking
warm beer.

Yes, last week Joan Collins revealed that all her years of dodgy B-movies were
just preparation for her latest role as a politician ready to defend the realm.

Emerging from a cocoon of hairspray, she declared that it was time to make a
stand against the ogres of the European Union.

She was, she announced, supporting the UK Independence party, which advocates
Britain's withdrawal from the union.

"I do feel that my country -I am English -is losing a lot of what I grew up
with," said the star of such traditional British flicks as The Stud and The
Bitch.

"I feel we are eroding ourselves to Brussels."

Self-erosion, though probably best done in private, struck an immediate public
chord. Visits to the UKIP website leapt; television pundits talked earnestly of
a "new political force"; newspaper coverage soared.

With hindsight, in fact, it's pretty clear that Collins, far from being an expat
glamourpuss devoted to showbiz, has long run a subtle anti-EU propaganda
campaign.

In 1973, when Britain entered the Common Market, she made her point by starring
in the film Tales That Witness Madness.

In 1986 her way of fighting the Single European Act was to star in Sins, a
romance in which a young woman sees her mother killed by the Nazis. In 1992,
when Maastricht ushered in the EU, she laid bare her policies in Fatal Charms.

Like the films, however, the subliminal message bombed. The EU behemoth marched
on. So last week the eternal Collins finally came out to strip away the heavy
make-up of modern politics. No "red lines" or "looser arrangements" for her or
the UKIP: it was Britain out or nothing.

Chaperoning her at the press conference was Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former
daytime television host who is now standing as a UKIP candidate in the European
elections.

With his perma-tan and Persil teeth, he is another big boost to the UKIP's
profile.

As the going got tough -it turned out Collins has never voted in Britain -
Kilroy-Slick smoothly came to the rescue. "Joan Collins believes what we believe
in," said the man who recently left the BBC after describing Arabs as "suicide
bombers, limb amputators, women repressors". "She wants Britain to govern
itself."

And there was the nub of it. Collins and Kilroy might be unlikely inspiration
for a sweeping political movement, but here was a party brave or barmy enough to
say it as it saw it on one of the great issues of the day.

The appeal may be more visceral than rational, but it appears to be working.

Already polls suggest that the UKIP has pushed the Liberal Democrats into third
place, while business tycoons have stumped up a fighting fund of £2m. It's quite
an achievement for a party with an election broadcast that shows an Austrian
being slapped in the face with a wet fish.

But is the UKIP a temporary aberration, a political version of the Addams Family
oddballs and misfits? Or could it, like Pim Fortuyn's anti-immigration movement
in the Netherlands, become a serious force to be reckoned with?

FOR years the party, spawned in the early 1990s, has been dismissed as a
slightly paranoid fringe group obsessed with a single issue. Like some other
minority groups, it's had to beat back attempts to infiltrate it by the
hard-right British National party. It's also fallen out with its founder, Alan
Sked, who now tells people to vote Tory.

Some of its activists are bent double under the weight of chips on their
shoulders: they blame EU regulation for sinking their small businesses. Most are
political novices. It's an organisation where the press officer can say
straightfaced that the Tory policy on fisheries "doesn't hold water".

Despite such drawbacks, the party won 7% of the vote and three seats at the last
EU elections. This time pollsters say it could double its vote.

What changed? About 18 months ago Roger Knapman, leader of the UKIP, took a
cruise holiday (nowhere near the EU apparently) on which one of the speakers was
Dick Morris, former political adviser to President Clinton.

Morris is a wizard at strategy and spin who even managed to revive his own
career after being caught in bed with a prostitute. In Morris's American world
view, Britain needs saving from the EU's sweaty embrace and he agreed to help
UKIP.

"We've got him for pretty much expenses," says Mark Croucher, UKIP press
officer.

"Compared to what he normally charges, it's peanuts."

Not so the other clever monkey conjuring up UKIP's sudden success. Several
months ago UKIP hired the publicist Max Clifford at about £20,000 a month.

"I'm a Labour man," says Clifford. "But Europe? On that issue I totally identify
with UKIP."

Clifford called up his old friend Kilroy (they both have holiday homes in, er,
Spain) and suggested he pitch in. He was, after all, in need of a job.

"What easier way is there to make an awful lot of money doing absolutely nothing
than to be an MEP?" Clifford says. "So I knew it would be perfect for him."
Kilroy brought on board Collins, whom he has known for years.

In the wings are other screen stars. There's Edward Fox, the quintessential
Englishman who mowed down natives in the epic Gandhi. He may also be useful
since he starred in The Day of the Jackal as the assassin who tried to bump off
General de Gaulle. Mind you, he missed.

As if to demonstrate inclusiveness there is also Robin Page, former presenter of
the series One Man and His Dog.Then there's Patrick Moore, the astronomer who
has had to cope with saying Uranus in public more than any other person alive.
He's raring to campaign, but is no longer mobile without sticks.

And then there's Sir Stirling Moss, the former racing driver whom UKIP also
solicited as a supporter. Like many UKIP sympathisers, Moss appears entirely
normal until you press the button marked "Brussels". Then things start to
over-rev and smoke a little.

"I can't tell you how appalling it is to lose our sovereignty and for the Union
Jack not to be my flag," he fulminated. "I'm not for having the ruddy euro. I'm
not for having Brussels controlling us, whoever's there. The thought of what it
is going to be like in 10 or 20 years is appalling. Not that I'm going to be
here then."

THE danger for the main political parties is that a sizeable number of voters
agree with Moss and the UKIP. Fed up with obfuscation and not having a say on
Europe, they find the party's plain talk appealing, even though some of its
claims about EU costs and excesses are wildly wrong.

A YouGov poll predicted last week that the UKIP would get 14% of the vote; among
those who said they were certain to vote its share rose to 18%.

This is striking support for a party that next week will send Mick Mahon, a
trawler skipper, sailing up the Thames carrying effigies of the people he
accuses of selling his industry and country down the river. He plans to deliver
Tony Blair, John Major and "the arch enemy" Ted Heath to Traitors' Gate at the
Tower of London, together with copies of all the EU treaties they signed.

Silly stunt or bold message? Either way, it will bring the UKIP more publicity.

But what is good for the UKIP may not be good for the Eurosceptic movement
overall. Some on the left see Collins and friends as useful idiots. The more
they succeed, the more they help Labour.

"This is bad news for the Tories," says Professor Colin Rallings of the
Elections Centre at the University of Plymouth. "These are people who used to be
natural Conservatives."

No doubt the Tories can live with the UKIP for now, but in the longer term it
could do real damage. Of particular concern is its line that Tony Blair's
promised referendum on the EU constitution should be seen as a vote on being "in
or out" of Europe. This is precisely the way Labour wants the debate framed and
what the Tories most fear.

But don't panic yet. In America when showbiz and politics collide, they get
Arnie Schwarzenegger. We get Kilroy and Collins. Mind you, there's a certain
British style to having the great Euroland debate fired by an actress who once
appeared in the film If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium.

CUE SUPER THURSDAY

Three elections are being held at the same time on June 10. Up for grabs are
seats in the European parliament, about one third of local council seats and the
position of London mayor.

Euro elections: There are 732 seats in the parliament. The UK will elect 78
MEPs, the same as France and Italy. Scotland gets seven, Wales four, Northern
Ireland three and England 64. MEPs are elected every five years to ratify, amend
or reject laws. Recently they pushed through stronger health warnings on
cigarette packets.

Local elections: The Tories, who have the highest number of councillors in
England (7,700), are hoping for greater gains, but the Liberal Democrats could
benefit from voters' disillusionment with Iraq. Recent council tax hikes are
also key. In England, seats at 144 of the 387 local authorities will be up for
grabs. In Wales, all 1,270 elected places must be voted for.

London: Voters must choose a mayor and representatives for the 25 seats of the
London assembly. Ken Livingstone, who won as an independent in 2000 but is now
the Labour candidate, is squaring up to Steve Norris. Norris, a Tory, would
scrap the congestion charge; Livingstone would ban smoking in public places.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

Beam me up, quick -a celeb is after my vote

BYLINE: Jasper Gerard

SECTION: Features; News; 29

LENGTH: 282 words


Many actresses will readily endorse any old scrubbing brush if the pay is good,
as many have quietly confessed to me over the years. Actors are no better.
Crisps? I eat nothing else. East European cars? My favourite motors. Problems
with impotence? Er, that ad might cost you double, squire.

Nor, generally speaking, are actors much more intelligent than, say, your
typical punter on The Weakest Link. Yet their "endorsements" of political
parties dominate the scant coverage of the Euro and local elections. Why?

Joan Collins, star of The Bitch and The Stud, wafted in to tell us to vote for
the party that wants us to pull out of Europe. Her photocall over (no questions,
please), she headed back to Europe. For she prefers to grace the French with her
charm rather than us (like so many Eurosceptics).

Not to be overshadowed by the UK Independence party, Labour beamed up Patrick
Stewart (again). I am not sure how much he gleans about Britain from the bridge
of the Starship Enterprise, or from the pool in Bel Air. When I interviewed him
a couple of years back he was effusive about Tony Blair but when asked if he
might return to live under Blair's rule, his eyebrows mutated in horror.

The one lively moment in the London mayoral elections has been Ken Livingstone
and Simon Hughes going spare over who really had the endorsement of Helen
Mirren. Agh! Does even the dame give a damn?

Politicians are behind the curve. Viewing figures for Hell's Kitchen, the latest
celeb telly nonsense, are off the boil. We are bored of the fatuously famous. It
does not mean we are turned on by "the issues" either. But if Collins swings a
single vote, I'll also emigrate.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

Joan Collins's toe-curling debut

BYLINE: Jack Grimston

SECTION: Features; Scotland News 21

LENGTH: 52 words


After Joan Collins's toe-curling debut for the UK Independence party, the
one-time Dynasty star has at least been trying to get close to the people. "I
haven't been on a bus since I was 18, but in the suburbs of one of the Midlands
towns recently I had no choice," she wrote in a magazine diary recently.


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Atticus JOAN HENRIETTA COLLINS (94%);

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 30, 2004

HOWARD FURY AT TORY REVOLT ON EURO POLL

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 407 words


FOUR Tory peers have been disciplined after publicly backing the UK Independence
Party in next month's European elections.

Conservative leader Michael Howard immediately withdrew the party whip from the
peers, who were among a dozen Tory, independent and cross-bench peers who signed
an open letter calling for people to vote "in the national interest" for UKIP
and Britain's withdrawal from the EU.

The mutiny will come as a blow to Mr Howard's European election hopes as he
prepares to outline his party's policy on Europe in a major speech on Tuesday.

Senior Tories fear the party could lose support to UKIP - which boasts a GBP
2million campaign fund - amid unhappiness among Conservative voters over Mr
Howard's refusal to advocate an anti-EU line.

Baroness Cox of Queensbury, Lord Willoughby de Broke, Lord Pearson of Rannoch
and Lord Stevens of Ludgate all put their names to an open letter urging people
to vote UKIP on June 10. They said it was their only hope of persuading Mr
Howard to advocate pulling Britain out of the EU.

The peers joined seven other members of the Lords who called on voters to back
UKIP.

A fifth Tory, Lord Laing of Dunphail, also signed the letter but recanted and
has not been disciplined.

Leading UKIP candidate Robert Kilroy-Silk - a Sunday Express columnist - said:
"There will be more defections to come.

"A lot of people in the Tory parliamentary party are deeply unhappy, and some of
them extremely bitter, about the way the party has sold out on Europe. Only
residual party loyalty is holding them back."

The peers' letter stated: "We urge those who normally vote for one of the main
political parties to lend their vote at the European elections on June 10 to the
UK Independence Party.

"Only thus will the main parties be persuaded that their policies towards the
European Union are not in the national interest."

Lord Pearson said he hoped other Tory peers would back UKIP, adding: "We hope a
significant vote for UKIP can make Michael Howard see sense."

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said the Tory peers had been "very brave to put country
before party".

But the Tory leader in the Lords, Lord Strathclyde, said: "It is unacceptable
for any Conservative member to urge voters to support anyone other than a
Conservative candidate.

"Votes for minority parties can only give comfort to the Prime Minister who is
determined to sell us out over Europe."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              27 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 30, 2004

HOWARD DISCIPLINES UNHAPPY TOFFS; TORY PEERS URGE REBELS TO VOTE FOR KILROY
PARTY

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 390 words


FOUR Tory peers have been disciplined after publicly backing the UK Independence
Party in next month's European elections.

Tory leader Michael Howard withdrew the party whip from the peers who signed an
open letter calling for people to vote "in the national interest" for the UKIP
and Britain's withdrawal from the EU.

Baroness Cox of Queensbury, Lord Willoughby de Broke, Lord Pearson of Rannoch
and Lord Stevens of Ludgate said it was their only hope of persuading Mr Howard
to advocate pulling Britain out of the EU.

A fifth Tory, Lord Laing of Dunphail, also signed the letter, but later withdrew
his support and has not been disciplined.

The peers joined a further seven members of the Lords who called on voters to
back UKIP in June's election.

Senior Tories fear the party could lose support to UKIP - which boasts of a GBP
2million campaign fund - amid unhappiness among many voters over the leader's
refusal to advocate a staunch anti-EU line.

Leading UKIP candidate, and Scottish Sunday Express columnist, Robert
Kilroy-Silk said yesterday:

"There will be more defections. This is the tip of a very large iceberg.

"There are a lot of people in the Tory party who are deeply unhappy, and some of
them are extremely bitter, about the way the party has sold out on Europe. " The
peers' letter stated: "We urge those who normally vote for one of the main
political parties to lend their vote at the European elections on June 10 to the
UK Independence Party.

"Only thus will the main parties be persuaded that their policies towards the
European Union are not in the national interest. It is to that national interest
that we all owe our allegiance."

Lord Pearson said he hoped other Tory peers would back UKIP, adding:

"We have failed to persuade Michael Howard over Europe. The only party that can
save our democracy is the Conservative Party, but we hope a significant vote for
UKIP can make Michael Howard see sense."

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said the Tory peers had been "very brave to put country
before party".

The Lords' Tory leader, Lord Strathclyde, said: "It is unacceptable for any
Conservative member to urge voters to support anyone other than a Conservative
candidate."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said:

"This is extraordinary intervention by Conservative peers."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              28 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 30, 2004

LEADER; BRITAIN CAN THRIVE OUTSIDE EU'S CONTROL

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 589 words


THIS is a crucial weekend for the EU elections in the East Midlands, the
North-west, the North and Humberside.

This is the weekend - indeed, the day - when the electors of these areas can
decide how they want their country to be governed because they are areas where
voting is by postal vote only and, Royal Mail willing, the ballot papers should
have already arrived.

The voters in these areas can decide today, or within the next few days, whether
we can begin the exciting process of getting our country back from Brussels - as
well as from the supercilious, politically correct metropolitan elite in London
- or whether we continue to allow ourselves to be dominated by the French and
the Germans.

There is no doubt about what the majority of the British people want. They want
their country back, now. Fifty-two per cent of the electorate would want us to
withdraw from the EU if they could be assured that we would be able to continue
to trade with Europe.

Yet not one of the old discredited political parties are prepared to offer the
British people what they clearly want. Only UKIP is openly, clearly and
unequivocally for an amicable and negotiated withdrawal of the UK from the EU.

It is not surprising then that UKIP is suddenly making great progress among the
electorate and waves in the press? It speaks the language of the people. Yet the
moment that UKIP talks straight, the others begin to lie. Just as they lied in
the referendum of 1975 when they said it was all about joining a rich man's
club, about free trade, cheap wine and Continental holidays and that it would
not lead to a loss of our sovereignty or independence, so they are lying to us
now.

The scaremongering has begun. They say we will be less prosperous, that jobs
will be at risk.

This is not true. We will not only be able to trade with the EU as before but be
free to trade on better terms with the rest of the world.

Those who argue that the EU would not continue to trade with us are deluded or
liars and probably both. The truth is that Britain is the fourth largest economy
in the world, that France and Germany export more to us than to any other
country and that they would want to continue to sell us their wine, their BMWs,
their Mercedes and all the rest.

So, when you are looking at that ballot paper and wondering where to put your X,
just ask yourself which party talks straight, wants us to be free to speak our
minds, be proud to be British and to govern ourselves?

WHAT is going on in the EU? What is the explanation for the fact that in the
last week alone, just days before difficult elections for eurofanatics for the
European Parliament, it has announced so many crazy initiatives?

First, Ford warns that cars will cost several thousand pounds more in order to
comply with the multifarious EU health and safety regulations. Then we are
informed that the EU intends to insist that police in Britain introduce random
breath tests, that local councils must vigorously enforce the elimination of
pounds and ounces, and next, to cap it all, we are informed that we will not be
permitted to give a dog a bone any more unless that bone is fit enough, and has
passed all the tests, for human consumption.

What do you think? Is there a Machiavellian plot on the part of someone inside
the eerie corridors of power in Brussels to discredit the institution in Britain
so that there will be a massive vote to withdraw? Or is it just that it is as
power crazed and as barmy as we all thought?

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              29 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 30, 2004

BRITAIN CAN THRIVE OUTSIDE OF EUROPE

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 588 words


THIS is a crucial weekend for the EU elections in the East Midlands, the
North-west, the North and Humberside.

This is the weekend - indeed, the day - when the electors of these areas can
decide how they want their country to be governed because they are areas where
voting is by postal vote only and, Royal Mail willing, the ballot papers should
have already arrived.

The voters in these areas can decide today, or within the next couple of days, w
hether we can begin the exciting and rewarding process of getting our country
back from Brussels - as well as from the supercilious, politicallycorrect
metropolitan elite in London - or whether we continue to allow ourselves to be
dominated by the French and the Germans and lied to and patronised by the old
political parties in Westminster.

There is no doubt about what the majority of the British people want.

They want their country back, now.

Every public opinion poll shows it.

Fifty-two per cent of the electorate w ould want us to withdraw from the EU if
they could be assured that we w ould be able to continue to trade with Europe.

Yet not one of the old discredited and untrustworthy political parties are
prepared to offer the British people what they clearly want. Only UKIP is
openly, clearly and unequivocally for an amicable and negotiated withdrawal of
the UK from the EU.

It is not surprising then, is it, that UKIP is suddenly making great progress
among the electorate and w aves in the press? It speaks the language of the
people. It is in touch w ith their aspirations instead of being disdainfully
aloof in Westminster like the old political parties.

Yet the moment that UKIP talks straight, the others begin to lie. Just as they
lied in the referendum of 1975 w hen they said it was all about joining a rich
man's club, about free trade, about cheap wine and Continental holidays and that
it would not lead to a loss of our sovereignty or independence, so they are
lying to us now.

The scaremongering has begun.

They say we will be less prosperous, that jobs will be at risk. This is not
true.

Indeed, it is the very opposite of the truth. We will not only be able to
continue to trade with the EU as before but be free to trade on better terms
with the rest of the world.

Those who argue that the EU would not continue to trade with us and buy our
goods and services are deluded or liars and probably both. The truth is that
Britain is the fourth largest economy in the world, that France and Germany
export more to us than to any other country and that they would want to continue
to sell us their wine, their BMWs, their Mercedes and all the rest. Of course
they would. It would be them that would be losing jobs if they didn't, not us.

Moreover, the EU currently has a "good neighbour policy" as part of which it has
developed a "strategic alliance with Russia" and is spending GBP 174million of
our money this year to foster good relations with countries such as Morocco,
Turkey and the Ukraine. Is there anyone stupid enough to believe that it
wouldn't want to have excellent relations with the fourth largest economy, the
fourth largest military power, a member of G8 and the UN Security Council?

So, when you are looking at that ballot paper and wondering where to put your X,
discount what the lying old parties say and just ask yourself which party talks
straight, tells the truth, speaks for you, wants us to be free to speak our
minds, be proud to be British and to govern ourselves?

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              30 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 30, 2004

STAND UP TO BRUSSELS BULLIES

BYLINE: JIMMY YOUNG

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 299 words


WE ALL want to force drunken drivers off our roads but what is the best way? At
present, British police can stop drivers only if they are concerned about their
standard of driving. They can then breath-test them but they do not have
unlimited powers to randomly stop and test.

Under those rules, Britain's roads are the safest in Europe, our road deaths are
half of Europe's average and one third of those of Greece and Portugal.
Nonetheless the European Commission, in the shape of its vice-president Loyola
de Palacio and Ad Hellemons, the chief of the European Traffic Police Network,
says we must introduce random breath-tests for British drivers. Our Government
insists that our existing powers are sufficient.

What particularly worries me is that, even when we agree about doing something,
Brussels still insists on telling us how we must do it. In fact, Ad Hellemons
warns that if we don't introduce random breath-testing voluntarily, the EC will
force us to introduce it.

Increasingly, the Brussels Eurocrats glory in their power, love showing us their
muscles and issuing their threats.

Now Conservative leader Michael Howard needs to sharpen up his act pretty
quickly. His "live and let live" policy and only mild criticisms of the
flagrantly despotic ambitions of the European Union, are no longer sufficient.

Sentiment right across Europe is turning against the EU as it functions at
present.

Tony Blair won't change his views and if Mr Howard doesn't engage more
positively with the majority of voters, he will suffer. He will find the much
smaller, but fizzing with energy and vitality UK Independence Party, with its
clear policy of No To Europe, showing him how to do it - and, I have no doubt,
attracting some Conservative voters in the process.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              31 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

As founder of the UKIP, I will vote Tory

BYLINE: By ALAN SKED

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor:Pg. 22

LENGTH: 842 words

I write this article more in sorrow than in anger. I was proud to found the UK
Independence Party and I still avidly support the cause. However, since I quit
the party in 1997, I have been disturbed by developments inside it and disagree
on principle with its obsession with gaining seats in next month's elections in
the European Parliament. The introduction of a list system of proportional
representation has made it relatively easy for it to win seats (and huge
salaries and expenses) in Strasbourg with votes that would just scrape past
deposit-saving levels in Westminster elections. Meanwhile, the party has given
up thinking about any policies and its active base is down to around 1,200
people, if internal voting figures are anything to go by.

What possible purpose has been served by sending UKIP MEPs to Strasbourg? The
European Parliament has no power to grant or further UK independence. And who
has heard of the UKIP's MEPs? Their only monument has been the laughter
occasioned by the maiden speeches of Michael Holmes, who called for greater
powers for the European Parliament - not exactly UKIP policy - and Graham Booth,
whose incomprehensible speech in Devonian even managed to insult his Cornish and
Somerset constituents. (He later apologised.)

Worse still, the extra-parliamentary behaviour of the party's de facto leader,
the MEP Nigel Farage, led UKIP's research director, Dr Richard North, to resign,
saying: "I am not and was not prepared to be a bag-carrier. Nor would I fetch
and carry for Farage, or write his letters, or be available to pour him into a
taxi when he was so blind drunk that he could no longer stand, or cover for him
when he failed to turn up for morning appointments because he had been out on
the tiles all night long. I am almost old enough to be his father, but I am not
in the business of being his nanny. I am a professional researcher and that, in
my mind, was what I was employed to do."

UKIP's MEPs are a standing joke at Strasbourg, where their attendance record,
even by the standards of most MEPs, is relatively poor and where, according to
independent research by the European Studies centre at the London School of
Economics, the three often vote in different ways on the same issue. Indeed,
their voting record is bizarre - they voted both against reforming the
notoriously corrupt expenses system (the only British party to do so) and
against EU enlargement, despite the free votes in national referendums of the
peoples of eastern Europe and the Baltic States to join the EU. Surely if, as
UKIP maintains, the UK has the right to vote "No" to remaining in the EU in a
referendum, the peoples of eastern Europe have the right to vote "Yes" in
theirs?

This hypocrisy was caused by the UKIP's new hard line on immigration - by voting
against enlargement, they even object to fellow Europeans coming to Britain. On
this point it would seem that the UKIP is even less liberal than the BNP.
Certainly, there is a symbiosis between elements of the parties, and Nick
Griffin, the BNP leader, has spoken on the BBC of an informal pact between his
party and elements of the UKIP leadership - although the UKIP leadership
publicly condemns the BNP and stoutly denies the existence of any such pact.
Certain observers fear that a deal has already been struck whereby the UKIP
concentrates on the south of England and the BNP on the north - exactly what Mr
Griffin implied.

The BNP national treasurer at one point even took up a role in UKIP although he
was expelled when this was discovered. A number of former UKIP members are now
standing for the BNP.

The obsession with the European Parliament and the far-Right connection apart,
my third and most fundamental objection to the UKIP is that it simply refuses to
do the hard work of policy formulation - certainly over Europe, but especially
domestically - to warrant it being taken seriously. Perhaps its usual 2 per cent
poll in local elections and by-elections has persuaded it that in UK elections
it is a lost cause. It relies instead on cheap publicity gimmicks - adopting
discredited former Tory MPs such as Piers Merchant and John Browne as candidates
and winning endorsements from Joan Collins and Robert Kilroy Silk. This
highlights not how mainstream but how lightweight the UKIP really is. How much
better the party would be served by a serious manifesto. The UKIP's myopic
pleasure in remaining a one-issue party, exclusively and opportunistically
concerned with gaining a handful of lucrative but irrelevant seats in
Strasbourg, means that only the Tories can now advance the Eurosceptic cause
where it counts - in Westminster.

The Tories, meanwhile, have changed course on Europe. No to the euro, no to any
constitution, but yes to the repatriation of the fishing policy. That is not yet
a policy of withdrawal, admittedly, but one which would radically alter the
position of a Britain still trading inside the EU. And they are in a position to
achieve this. So, for now, this UKIP founder will vote Tory on June 10.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              32 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

Tories disciplined

SECTION: News; News in Brief:Pg. 02

LENGTH: 41 words

The Conservatives withdrew the whip from four peers - Baroness Cox of
Queensbury, Lord Willoughby de Broke, Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Stevens
of Ludgate - after they put their names to an open letter supporting the UK
Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              33 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

VERB SAP Be careful, Mr Howard Notebook

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: News; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 158 words

Last Monday I addressed nearly 300 people in Winchester's Guildhall at a
Euro-election meeting. My fellow speaker was Nigel Farage, MEP, who was greatly
cheered by the poll results published in that morning's Daily Telegraph, which
put his UK Independence Party in third place, just behind Labour and ahead of
the Lib Dems.

Afterwards, I dined with six enthusiastic UKIP activists. They included a
barrister, a doctor, and the retired company secretary of a large property
company. All were once active Tories. Indeed one Tory front-bencher says
privately that "20 per cent of my constituency association will vote for the
UKIP on June 10".

These are the people Michael Howard needs on his side if he is to win the next
general election. And I can assure him that his advertised speech on Tuesday,
attacking the UKIP and claiming that it will cost Britain huge numbers of jobs,
is unlikely to win many of them back.

Comment - Page 22

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              34 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

CAR0LE MALONE: JOAN'S A PARTY GIRL

BYLINE: CAR0LE MALONE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 121 words


THERE was much public fanfare surrounding the fact that Joan Collins has joined
the Anti-Europe UK Independence Party. And because of that you'd expect
70-something Joanie to have something to say about Britain's position within the
EU and why she thinks we should pull out of it.

But standing alongside Kilroy Silk at a Press conference (who was smiling like a
deranged Cheshire cat at being back in the limelight) Joan looked like she'd
been prodded up the bum with a sharp stick when some hack asked for her views on
Europe.

"Oh no, no," she shrilled, aghast at the prospect of talking about something
other than herself: "I'm not a political person at all."

And so the point of joining the Party is...?

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              35 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

STOTTY ON SUNDAY: SO THAT IS THE SIZE OF IT, JOAN

BYLINE: RICHARD STOTT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 305 words


THE UK Independence Party insists it is not populated by loony right- wingers,
in spite of astronomer Patrick Moore being its star member. However, pretending
to be a serious party is hardly enhanced by employing Joan Collins and Robert
Kilroy-Silk as chief Union Jack-wavers.

At least the UKIP is clear about its European aims - it wants out. As a result
it will do well in the Euro elections as both Labour and Conservative have been
ducking and diving, desperately trying to avoid alienating sections of their own
supporters.

Ms Collins can therefore get away with saying that Britain is "her country"
although she has spent much of her adult life life outside it and never voted.
"I often think it's a shame we cannot take pride in our flag and our country,"
she trilled. It would be interesting to know how many times during her 71 years
she has had enough pride in her country to live here long enough to pay British
income tax.

At least Ms Collins has the excuse of being a real actress as opposed to Robert
Kilroy-Silk, who is a pretend politician. This coiffeured, permatanned buffoon -
I'm talking about Kilroy-Silk - claimed the reason Joan Collins's anti-EU stance
caught his eye was her romance with Warren Beatty, an apprenticeship all
Hollywood starlets serve.

Apparently her studio insisted they should marry and not live together. "We
solved the problem by breaking up," she explained. "So you will understand that
I am not in favour of a one size-fits-all society" - something she reckons will
be forced on us by the new EU constitution.

Leaving aside the fact that Warren Beatty built his reputation on the firm
belief that one size did indeed fit all, this is precisely the kind of glib
claptrap that has made the plastic, throwaway careers of both Joan Collins and
Robert Kilroy-Silk.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              36 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 29, 2004, Saturday

Even the whackiest candidates could stand a chance on June 10 Personal Account

BYLINE: By IAN COWIE

SECTION: City Pg. 10

LENGTH: 673 words

TAX might be described as the point at which politics condenses into something
more tangible than hot air and hits you in the pocket. Those of us who really do
not care whether a red or blue flag flies above the town hall can get quite
heated about how much of the year we are forced to spend working for the
Government and its apparatchiks, rather than ourselves and our families.

For example, if all the taxes - including National Insurance - paid by people on
average earnings were deducted "up front" starting on January 1, then we would
have been working for the Government all this year so far. According to
economists at the Adam Smith Institute, tax freedom day arrives tomorrow.

That's about four weeks later than Americans are allowed to start keeping what
they earn. No wonder they are so much wealthier and harder working than we are.
Self-interest is the one motivation you can always rely on, as Adam Smith, the
Scots economist, noted in his analysis - The Wealth of Nations - some 228 years
ago.

On a brighter note, while we may envy the Americans' freedom to begin working
for themselves so much earlier in the year, we can comfort ourselves with the
thought that most continental Europeans pay even more tax than we do. On
average, across the rest of the European Union, tax freedom day does not arrive
until June 22 - still more than three weeks away.

There is a growing cultural chasm between low-tax, small-government America and
high-tax, big-government Europe. As in so many ways, Britain finds itself in
between the two extremes. Some perception of this may explain the apparent
popularity of a protest vote being picked up by pollsters ahead of the European
Parliament elections on June 10.

A YouGov survey for The Daily Telegraph this week found that among Britons who
intend to vote, more said they were likely to support the United Kingdom
Independence Party than the Liberal Democrats. That is extraordinary when you
remember that the UKIP was founded just 11 years ago and is often presented as a
ragbag of madcaps and mavericks.

However eccentric some of its members may be, the UKIP does offer the unique
characteristic among our national political parties of being wholly and
unequivocally opposed to the European Union. It wants to get Britain out of the
EU.

Even some people who would regard that outcome as an economic disaster may be
tempted to support the rebels. This would not be in any expectation that they
will ever be in a position to implement their anti-EU policy but rather in the
hope that a substantial protest vote might be noted by the major political
parties.

You do not need to be xenophobic to be deeply sceptical about the bloated EU
bureaucracy. It is perfectly possible to admire the sophistication of the French
and the civilisation of the Germans without wishing to let them replace our
currency or raise our taxes to continental levels.

The Inland Revenue is already becoming increasingly bold in separating us from
what we earn. Two weeks ago, Your Money reported how a West Country businessman
had spent pounds 770 on accountants' fees to defend an Inland Revenue
investigation which found he owed just 8p extra tax.

He cannot reclaim all his costs and the tax inspector has no duty to justify the
investigation. Random investigations are part of the self-assessment system and
it is just your bad luck if your name is plucked out of the Revenue computer.

This week the taxmen admitted issuing an unknown number of pounds 100 fines
incorrectly. Leading accountants estimate more than 50,000 people may be
affected but the Revenue says it has no plans to bother to find out, leaving it
up to the victims to complain if they want to.

Such a cavalier approach, apparently based on the assumption the Government
needs our money more than we do, may prompt the thought that the time has come
for us to be less like our continental cousins. Even those who would not care if
their MEP had eyes on stalks and a prehensile tail may be tempted to vote
accordingly.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              37 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 29, 2004, Saturday

Voters prefer Brown to Blair Majority sees Prime Minister as liability UKIP
picking up protest votes

BYLINE: By George Jones and Toby Helm

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 650 words

GORDON Brown has surged ahead of Tony Blair to become Labour's biggest electoral
asset in the run-up to the next general election, according to a YouGov poll for
The Daily Telegraph today.

Mr Blair is regarded as a "liability" by a majority of voters, with almost 60
per cent believing he should resign now or before the election.

The poll indicates that the European and local elections on June 10 could
provide a surprise upset for the major parties because of a jump in support for
the United Kingdom Independence Party.

With less than two weeks to polling day, the Conservative lead has dropped by
five points. They are on 34 per cent, while Labour has lost two points to 33 per
cent.

But support for "other parties", which includes UKIP, has almost doubled from
seven to 12 per cent in the past month.

Within that total, UKIP, which wants Britain to pull out of the EU, is on five
per cent, and the extreme-Right British National Party is on two per cent.

The Liberal Democrats, who are seeking to turn the elections into a vote on the
Iraq war, have picked up two points and are on 21 per cent.

But UKIP is emerging as a favourite for a mid-term protest against the
Government and could win as much as 20 per cent of the vote on June 10.

The poll is a damaging blow to Mr Blair as he tries to reassert his authority
and quash speculation within Labour that he may stand down.

Earlier this month, he was reported to have told close associates he would make
way for Mr Brown to succeed him if he regarded himself as a liability.

Mr Blair remains privately confident that he is still an election winner for
Labour despite the unpopularity of the Iraq war.

This week he dismissed as a "media parlour game" suggestions that he would not
serve a third term

But YouGov suggests disillusionment with Mr Blair - who had record popularity
ratings during the early years of his premiership - is widespread.

Asked if he should resign now, 41 per cent said he should, while another 18 per
cent believed he should go before the next election. Only 18 per cent wanted him
to stay for many more years.

Asked whether he was a liability to Labour, 51 per cent said yes, compared with
35
per cent who regarded him as an asset to his party. But he is still regarded as
an asset by 76 per cent of Labour supporters, with only seven per cent wanting
him to resign now.

The Chancellor is rated highly by voters from other parties who dislike Mr
Blair. Overall, Mr Brown is regarded as an an asset by 59 per cent and as a
liability by 21 per cent. Forty-nine per cent of Tory supporters regard Mr Brown
as an asset.

Although supporters of Mr Blair have warned that Mr Brown cannot expect an
unopposed "coronation" no other member of the Cabinet comes close to Mr Brown in
popularity with the public.

Asked who would make the best Prime Minister, 29 per cent pick Mr Brown and 25
per cent Mr Blair.

Since his marriage and the birth of his son John, Mr Brown has become more
relaxed and shed his dour image, while the economy, with low inflation and
interest rates, has been one of Labour's biggest successes.

The poll will fuel speculation among Labour MPs that the party would do better
at the next election under Mr Brown than Mr Blair. If Labour fares badly in next
month's elections, Mr Blair could come under pressure to step aside.

Robin Cook, the former foreign secretary, said last night: "I think the Labour
Party will do well at the next general election and would do well under Blair or
Brown. It doesn't surprise me that people should think highly of Gordon.

"He would be a good Prime Minister. I have a lot of admiration for the way
Gordon has conducted himself at the Treasury and the way he has run a sound
economy in extraordinarily difficult circumstances. To achieve what he has
against a very difficult economic circumstance throughout the world is quite
remarkable."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              38 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 29, 2004, Saturday

Voters deliver a brutal verdict on Blair 'the liability'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY KING

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 989 words

THE long twilight of Tony Blair's premiership is gathering, according to
YouGov's latest monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph. Even if Mr Blair remains
in power for several more years, he seems unlikely ever again to bask in the
sunshine of public approval.

With the possible and partial exception of Stanley Baldwin between the wars,
there is no known case of a Prime Minister losing his reputation for competence
and integrity and then regaining it.

However, it by no means follows that the Conservatives are poised to win the
next election. Their lead over Labour has long been flimsy and in the latest
survey has all but disappeared. The Tories also lost their reputation for
competence and integrity in the 1990s and despite the passage of time and three
changes of leader since 1997 they have scarcely begun to recover it.

Dissatisfaction with the two major parties and their leaders cries out from
YouGov's findings. Neither the Conservatives nor Labour has had the support of
40 per cent of voters since earlier this spring and, as the figures in the chart
show, the two are now almost level - and at a very low level.

Only 34 per cent of YouGov's respondents say they would vote Conservative at an
early general election. Only 33 per cent would vote Labour. Combined support for
the Liberal Democrats and the minor parties, having risen by seven points since
last month, also stands at 33 per cent.

Given the imminence of the local and European Parliament elections, it is the
rise of the "Other" category of parties that stands out. Seven per cent of
voters said last month that they would vote for a party other than Labour, the
Tories and Liberal Democrats. That figure has now nearly doubled to 12 per cent.

The major beneficiary is UKIP. Although only five per cent say they would vote
UKIP in a general election, the survey's findings, plus the YouGov poll in The
Daily Telegraph on Monday, suggest that UKIP could win as much as 20 per cent of
the poll in the Euro elections on June 10.

According to YouGov's data, UKIP is taking far more votes from those who would
otherwise have voted Conservative than from those who would otherwise have voted
Labour or Liberal Democrat. On June 10 it will probably eat seriously into the
Tories' share of the vote.

Voters' lack of enthusiasm for all the major parties is also reflected in the
party leaders' standings. Only 30 per cent of YouGov's respondents now think Mr
Blair "would make the best Prime Minister" against 52 per cent at the last
election. Michael Howard has improved on William Hague's standing but still
trails Mr Blair. Despite his party's progress since 2001, Charles Kennedy
remains on 15 per cent. Evidence of the scale of voters' falling-out with Mr
Blair continues to accumulate. As the section headed "Blair, Brown and the
future" make plain, fully 59 per cent of voters - including 74 per cent of
Liberal Democrats and 22 per cent of Labour's own supporters - think Mr Blair
should stand down before the election and, asked which of eight leading Labour
figures would make the best Prime Minister, only 25 per cent cite Mr Blair
compared with 29 per cent who name Gordon Brown.

Worse from Mr Blair's point of view are the findings at the bottom of the
chart's middle column. They border on the brutal. Mr Blair is supposed to have
said that he would leave office if he believed he had become a liability to his
party. According to YouGov's respondents, he has.

As the figures show, whereas only 35 per cent of voters think he is an asset to
his party, far more, 59 per cent, think Mr Brown is. By the same token, whereas
half of YouGov's respondents, 51 per cent, reckon Mr Blair has become a
liability to Labour, only 21 per cent think the same of Mr Brown. The contrast
is stark.

Against that background the Tories should be so far ahead as to be out of sight.
They are not. As the chart indicates, they are only a whisker ahead in response
to the standard voting-intention question and Mr Howard, who should be way ahead
of Mr Blair as a potential Prime Minister, still comes in second.

YouGov's findings contribute to the explanation. The main point is that although
most people do not think Labour has done very well, they also believe the Tories
would not do any better.

The figures under the heading "Blair vs the Conservatives" show how evenly
divided and hesitant opinion is. Over half have mixed feelings and the largest
single proportion, 29 per cent, say that although the Blair Government has not
been very good, they nevertheless reckon "it probably deserves to be returned to
power".

The same divisions and hesitancy emerge on specific issues. The section headed
"The 'trust' factor" shows that, although a large majority does not believe the
Blair Government has proved honest and trustworthy, nearly as many, 58 per cent,
think a Howard government would prove equally dodgy.

YouGov's findings on public services point in the same direction. A large
proportion of voters think the Government has not succeeded "in delivering
improved public services". Sadly from the Tories' point of view, the proportion
who think a Conservative government would also not succeed is almost identical.
Only if the Tories can persuade voters that on issues such as the public
services they can outperform Labour will they have a realistic chance of
winning.

The same pattern emerges over Iraq. By a wide margin, voters think the
Government has not done a good job there but almost no one imagines that the
Conservatives would handle it better.

The main thrust of the YouGov survey is that if both major parties are widely
disesteemed, but no other party is seen as a serious contender for power, then
there is great potential for frustration, anger and resentment among voters.
UKIP is successfully tapping into that at the moment. It could be someone else
in future.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              39 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 29, 2004, Saturday

Perhaps a troubled guest alerted Kilroy Silk to the dangers of European
federalism Notebook

BYLINE: By FRANK JOHNSON

SECTION: FeaturesComment on Saturday Pg. 26

LENGTH: 560 words

All credit to the UK Independence Party for its rise in the opinion polls. If
that rise makes the Tories give a less uncertain sound on Europe, so much the
better.

All credit to the UKIP, too, for understanding the age in which we live. Ours
really is the age of "celebrity culture". That is not just a phrase invented by
people who are envious of celebrities, or by PR people who depend on celebrities
for a living.

Broadly speaking, the first definition of a celebrity is someone who is on
television nearly all the time. But that would apply to many cabinet, and even
shadow cabinet, ministers. So the second definition is of someone who is on
television nearly all the time and whom viewers remember.

Robert Kilroy Silk and Joan Collins are in that category. Both have recently
joined the UKIP. There must be at least some link between that and the party's
rise in the polls.

Politics and television have become so intertwined that, for all we know, it
might have been through one of the troubled guests on his daytime show that
Kilroy Silk was alerted to the dangers of European federalism.

"Meet Darren, from Basildon. He's a heroin addict and a convicted Millwall
hooligan who was sexually abused in childhood. So what the audience here in the
studio, and the viewers, would say is: what's someone with such a normal
background doing on the show?"

"Yeah, well, it's hard to talk about it, Kiljoy. My problem is: I feel I'm
surrounded by federasts."

"I know it's distressing. Take your time. Tell us more in your words, Darren."

"Well, everyone where you look these days, you can't get away from Chris Patten,
and stuff. They keep trying to frighten us by saying we're gonna be isolated in
Europe. That Douglas Hurd's another one. Also, I keep reading in the papers that
the Tories would be well ahead in the opinion polls by now if Ken Clarke were
leader, and he's been a practising federast for years."

Kilroy: "I'm going to do something about this, Darren. I'm giving up the show.
I'm joining the UK Independence Party."

How can the Tories match Miss Collins? She's a woman who knows a good party when
she's invited to one. The Tories' only answer must be Jordan. One of her
strengths is that she can make anything sound rude: "I never had a relationship
with all the Brussels Commission. Anyway, its Prodi was a bit small." The Tories
should have her immediately, so to speak.

Ahmad Chalabi is not the first exiled leader whom Washington has sought to
destroy. In 1943, Roosevelt and his advisers became worried about who would rule
liberated France. Some of the advisers, and perhaps Roosevelt himself, were even
prepared to concede that Petain should remain head of state. They were
eventually persuaded that this would result in a civil war.

The Americans settled on General Juin, a brave soldier but poor politician amid
the French exiles' intrigues in Algiers. Admiral Darlan reached Algiers. The
Americans now favoured him, despite his having been Petain's prime minister. An
exiled monarchist assassinated him, and the Americans returned to Juin.

The general was then seen off by the troublesome, non-compliant exile whom the
Americans were trying to see off above all, but managed to form a united exiles
and resistance front against him: Charles de Gaulle.

If Mr Chalabi had studied the episode, he might have survived.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              40 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 29, 2004, Saturday

Conservatives need to find some inspiration

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 27

LENGTH: 516 words

The combined effects of the YouGov poll that we publish today and the one we
reported on Monday make difficult news for the Conservatives. Initially, they
recovered credibility under Michael Howard's leadership and they continue to
perform well in council by-elections. But nationally, their progress seems to be
stuttering to a halt. While they no longer strike voters as risible or
incompetent, they have yet really to impress them as an attractive alternative
government.

Indeed, a melancholy stasis is affecting all the major parties. Labour and the
Lib Dems seem to have their feet sunk in electoral concrete, and the relative
standing of their respective leaders has scarcely altered over the past two
months. The only cheering messages in these results are for the UK Independence
Party, which might push the Lib Dems into fourth place in the June 10 European
elections, and for Gordon Brown, whom voters would seem to prefer to Tony Blair.

Both of these phenomenons - the rise of the UKIP (which is more of a protest
movement than a serious political party) and the growing prestige of the
Chancellor - can be attributed to a failure of nerve on the part of the Tories.
Attempting to avoid the charge of "extremism" (which Labour was bound to throw
at them anyway), they made a strategic decision to play it safe on both European
and economic policy. The consequence of this commitment to the consensual,
non-radical path is that they do not appear to stand for anything in particular.
Above all, they forgo any possibility of making an effective critique of Mr
Brown's tax-and-spend philosophy, or of Labour's quisling attitude to the EU.

Mr Brown bulldozes on with his hugely wasteful public spending. But his Tory
shadow, Oliver Letwin, promises to match (and even increase) Labour's health and
education budgets, thereby undermining the serious philosophical argument about
government spending that the electorate may well be ready to hear. At least some
viewers of Labour's recent election broadcast, which attacked Mr Letwin for
proposing reductions in expenditure, must surely have been left thinking "if
only". By appearing to accept Labour's premise that government spending is
inherently good, the Tories are fighting on the enemy's territory. No wonder Mr
Brown is gaining plausibility.

On Europe, too, the Tories seem strangely paralysed. Mr Howard has calculated,
not unreasonably, that it would be electorally damaging to stand on a platform
of leaving the EU. Voters generally favour a status quo position, and he has no
wish to alarm them. But he has overcompensated, eschewing potentially popular
policies for fear that Labour might denounce them as likely to lead to British
withdrawal. The Tories have been left with a milk-and-water European manifesto
that, with the exception of the welcome pledge to pull out of the Common
Fisheries Policy, is full of vague platitudes about reform. Mr Howard is working
tirelessly to restore his party's fortunes and his true supporters, including
this newspaper, wish him well. But he should inspire as well as reassure.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              41 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 29, 2004

Brown zeroes in on urban deprivation

BYLINE: Sarah Hall: Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 265 words


Gordon Brown will flag up Labour's commitment to eradicating unemployment in
deprived urban areas today, with a scheme to get 60,000 people into work.

The chancellor will also pledge that bringing jobs and training to remaining
areas of high unemployment will be a theme of this summer's spending review. And
he will indicate that reforms to move the UK closer to full employment will form
part of Labour's manifesto for a third term.

Speaking in Fife, Mr Brown will say that more than 60,000 people could still
fill jobs in the country's leading cities.

Treasury sources admit many aspects of the plan are not new, but say coupling it
with commiting a "significant" amount in the review, amounts to a "refocusing on
urban regeneration".

The guarantee will include improving the chances of getting ethnic-minority
people into work through a £8m fund, and an ongoing £2bn programme to tackle
crime, health, education and housing in 39 of the UK's most deprived
neighbourhoods.

With elections less than two weeks away, Mr Brown will also flag up the
difference between Labour, which reduced unemployment to less than a million,
and the Conservative policy of abolishing the New Deal. Labour also released a
Central Office briefing note denouncing the United Kingdom Independence party
(UKIP) as "full of cranks and political gadflies".

* Robin Cook has publicly praised Mr Brown, saying he would make a good prime
minister. Mr Cook, who quit the cabinet over Iraq, also told the London Evening
Standard that the war was a "personal tragedy" for Tony Blair.


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 29, 2004

Elections: June 2004: Iraq is not the issue: it's crime, housing, education: As
the June 10 vote approaches, local concerns and immigration, not the war, lead
the debate

BYLINE: Patrick Barkham

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 977 words


Pat Rowell stands by her union flag on the doorstep of her smart suburban home
in Winnersh, near Wokingham. "It went up after the twin towers. My husband
wanted to show that we were British and it's never been taken down. It's become
a bit of a joke now," she says.

It is not the only flag fluttering in this part of middle England, a reminder of
the emotional support the war on terror once enjoyed. But in Wokingham and
nearby Slough, backing for the war in Iraq is now as rare as an uncongested
road.

"Tony Blair is making a great mistake by staying in Iraq," says Mrs Rowell. "We
obviously don't understand their way of life - that wedding last weekend was a
good example. Until we understand their way of life we shouldn't be there."

The prime minister may be heartened to learn that footsoldiers from all parties
report that while Iraq may still be the talk of Westminster, other issues -
education, crime, housing and traffic - have pushed it off Berkshire's doorsteps
in the weeks before the local and European elections on June 10.

Mrs Rowell will be voting Liberal De mocrat, but not because of the war. Several
hundred of 8,100 new homes to be squeezed into Wokingham, the fastest growing
part of the country after Milton Keynes, are being built on the grassy meadow
behind her house. She says her local Lib Dem councillor, Prue Bray, is the only
person who has done anything to "take the edges off" the development.

"Iraq was an issue last year," says Mrs Bray. "We gained quite a few people from
Labour because of it. This year the only national issue that does come up here
is immigration."

But the mood among the voters bodes ill for the Blair government. While most
candidates believe the local elections will be won and lost on local issues,
Labour, Conservatives and Lib Dems in Wokingham and Slough all report a mounting
resentment against the prime minister.

Leafy, affluent and overwhelmingly white, Wokingham is controlled by the
Conservatives. Labour is all but wiped out; the Lib Dems are the main
challengers. They are campaigning on local issues, particularly crime,
anti-social behaviour and housing.

Like Mrs Rowell, Bruce Gibbs will vote on the housing issue in Winnersh.
"Locally, the one issue, above all else, is planning," he says. "Nationally,
trust and credibility are what really matter - the Lib Dems have gone a bit weak
but they are honest and straightforward. There is no integrity in Tony Blair's
party. I'd like to see him in the Hague with Milosevic."

With a dynamic council and a booming local economy, it would be a disaster for
Labour if it lost control of ethnically diverse Slough. The party knows it and
recently dispatched the education secretary, Charles Clarke, and the health
secretary, John Reid, to campaign.

Since winning control of Slough's unitary authority six years ago, Labour has
turned around results at the town's schools, and is now revamping their
buildings - and some of Slough's much-maligned 50s infrastructure - all with one
of the lowest council taxes in the country thanks to pragmatic partnerships with
private businesses. Long-term unemployment is virtually non-existent.

"The weird thing about this year is I've found that people feel as though they
have to be miserable but it is about things that are wrong for someone else,"
says Rob Anderson, the leader of Slough council. "I say 'you've got a job' and
'interest rates are still low' and they say 'oh, I'm OK, it's the others'. They
don't actually know anyone who is suffering but the agenda is doom and gloom."

Mr Anderson is canvassing for Labour in Langley St Mary's, a rare Conservative
stronghold in Slough with two Tory councillors out of three in the ward. He
still hopes to pick up more seats here. "At this stage of the electoral cycle we
should be so certain of being caned here we wouldn't bother," he said. "There's
no enthusiasm for the Tories. People want communication and they want to be
listened to."

Listening to the voters, Mr Anderson and his team are picking up more
disillusionment with central government this year than last. Iraq "may be the
first thing they talk about but it's not the most important thing".

On the doorstep of her neat suburban home, Noreen Hassan is typical. A Muslim,
she is more concerned about the state of Slough's schools than Iraq. As with
many voters, immigration seeps in. "They've got more Asian teachers there than
they should have," she says of the local school, where she fears there is a lack
of discipline for her son. "I know I'm Asian myself but they need to be properly
qualified."

"I'm against all this immigration," she adds. "We need to stop this coming in
and abusing the system. Our youngsters don't get a full education. Why is that?
Because people from abroad take their places. If we've got illegal immigrants
coming in and scraping off all our cream, what are we going to give our kids?"

Down the road in Wargrave, a pretty village on the banks of the Thames where the
cottages are festooned with wisteria, local Conservatives scent a real comeback.
"Michael Howard talks a lot of sense," says John Connell, owner of Wargrave
Antiques. "I won't be lured away by the UKIP," he tells Frank Browne, the
Conservative leader of Wokingham district council, who is out canvassing for
votes.

"There's a real passion to get Labour out that I haven't seen for seven years,"
says Mr Browne. "People say 'we'll do anything to get that man out'.

"Nationally, the Conservatives have stopped bickering amongst themselves and
voters like the way Michael Howard lays into Tony Blair in a robust way at prime
minister's question time. There is a definite swing against Labour, no doubt
about it. Whether we've done enough to capitalise on that, this election will
show."

guardian.co.uk/politics/elections2004


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 29, 2004, Saturday

A WEEK IN POLITICS: IRAQ'S CLOUDS MAY HAVE A SILVER LINING FOR BLAIR

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Tony Blair visits Ecclesfield police station in Sheffield
yesterday Gareth Copley/PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 961 words


"IF IT were not for Iraq, we would be in a fantastic position," three ministers
have said to me in the past 10 days. So have several Labour advisers. Iraq is
the haze that will not lift and is clouding the Government's achievements.

The deep frustration about it in the Government is tangible. Ministers know Tony
Blair is going to get a "bloody nose" at the 10 June European and local
elections and expect another flurry of speculation about whether he will resign.
Without Iraq, he might only have got the gentle kick up the backside given to
all governments in mid-term.

The message from Labour's remaining frontline troops in the constituencies is
that the revelations about prisoner abuse in Iraq had a terrible effect on
public opinion. The Daily Mirror's photographs may have been fake but ensured
that British troops - and Mr Blair - were tarnished by the torrent of
mistreatment allegations in the United States.

But if - and it is a very big "if"- a genuine handover of power to the Iraqis
can be completed successfully on 30 June, the British people might just begin to
notice other things. When the Cabinet discussed public services on Thursday, the
mood was quietly, surprisingly, upbeat. Mr Blair said there was growing evidence
that people are noticing improvements. The green shoots of delivery were finally
visible. But he acknowledged that people were not yet connecting them to the
Government's actions, which ministers agreed was a key challenge for the months
ahead.

One Blair aide said: "We have gone full circle. In the first term, there were
lots of claims about delivery but no one noticed it. Now it is happening, people
are experiencing it but it is largely unreported by the national media."

Partly because of Iraq, the good news is being overshadowed. Sir Nigel Crisp,
the NHS chief executive, said in his annual report this month that "something
big" is happening as the extra money delivers "sustained and accelerating"
improvements. The take-up rate for the Government's tax credits hit a record 90
per cent, helping six million families. Unemployment fell to its lowest level
for 29 years. But all that barely registered in the media.

Other policies beneath the Westminster radar may pay dividends in the real
world. Five million carers who look after sick or elderly relatives will get
special rights to request to work part-time and six million working adults
without five GCSEs will be offered free tuition to help them move up the
employment ladder. Measures to help millions of people suffering from chronic
diseases such as asthma will follow shortly. Those ideas grew out of Labour's
much-mocked "Big Conversation" with the voters. It is clever politics. So is Mr
Blair's intense focus on anti-social behaviour, which wins few headlines but, as
new powers take effect, is starting to make a difference. The economic stability
delivered since 1997 is taken for granted. But perhaps it explains a remarkable
ICM opinion poll this week that showed, for all Mr Blair's problems, when people
are asked how they would vote in a general election, Labour enjoys a four-point
lead over the Tories. "Without Iraq, we would be 15 points ahead", one Labour
strategist told me.

If I were a Tory strategist, I would be asking why my party is not 10 points in
front. Remember that Labour under Neil Kinnock enjoyed big poll leads over the
Tories which melted away at election time. At this stage of the 1987-1992
parliament, the Labour opposition was 11 points ahead; the Tories won the next
election by an eight-point margin.

This week's ICM survey will matter more in the long run than a YouGov poll which
asked people how they would vote in next month's European elections. Among those
"very likely" to vote, the Tories were on 31 per cent, Labour 23 per cent, the
anti-EU United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) 18 per cent and the Liberal
Democrats 15 per cent.

The Tories and Labour suspect UKIP's apparent surge is real. With perhaps only
one in four voters likely to turn out, both main parties are fighting a pretty
negative campaign designed mainly to get their core vote out. Labour says that
"Britain is working" but screams loudest about the threat of "Tory cuts" while
the Tories attack Labour's failure to delivery under the theme "let down by
Labour".

Both campaigns are hardly likely to "reconnect" ordinary people with politics.
At the same time, Labour folk complain politics is seen as "abstract" and say
that explains why the Government does not get the credit for its hard-won
economic prize or investment in public services.

"We realise that we have got to grow up a bit," said one Blair adviser. "People
are not going to thank us or love us. We've just got to let the changes work
through and hope people realise that things have improved."

Ministers now recognise there is little point in them trumpeting their
achievements from the rooftops. The new strategy is to secure "third-party
endorsements". People are more inclined to believe professionals than
politicians, a legacy of the rows about "spin" and Mr Blair's huge "trust
problem".

All roads lead back to Iraq: the biggest dent in Mr Blair's trust ratings was
surely made by him taking the country to war on a false prospectus.

An improvement on the ground in Iraq will not restore Mr Blair's personal
standing. But it might keep Iraq off the front pages and allow domestic issues
to the fore. The Prime Minister is not counting his chickens. The current
problems in Iraq are much worse than he ever imagined. But if he can find a way
through, he could be in a remarkably strong position for next year's general
election. The dark cloud that has eclipsed his second term may yet have a silver
lining.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              44 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 29, 2004, Saturday

A WEEK IN POLITICS: CLOUDS OF WAR MAY HAVE SILVER LINING FOR BLAIR

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Tony Blair visits Ecclesfield police station in Sheffield
yesterday Gareth Copley/PA

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 961 words


"IF IT were not for Iraq, we would be in a fantastic position," three ministers
have said to me in the past 10 days. So have several Labour advisers. Iraq is
the haze that will not lift and is clouding the Government's achievements.

The deep frustration about it in the Government is tangible. Ministers know Tony
Blair is going to get a "bloody nose" at the 10 June European and local
elections and expect another flurry of speculation about whether he will resign.
Without Iraq, he might only have got the gentle kick up the backside given to
all governments in mid-term.

The message from Labour's remaining frontline troops in the constituencies is
that the revelations about prisoner abuse in Iraq had a terrible effect on
public opinion. The Daily Mirror's photographs may have been fake but ensured
that British troops - and Mr Blair - were tarnished by the torrent of
mistreatment allegations in the United States.

But if - and it is a very big "if"- a genuine handover of power to the Iraqis
can be completed successfully on 30 June, the British people might just begin to
notice other things. When the Cabinet discussed public services on Thursday, the
mood was quietly, surprisingly, upbeat. Mr Blair said there was growing evidence
that people are noticing improvements. The green shoots of delivery were finally
visible. But he acknowledged that people were not yet connecting them to the
Government's actions, which ministers agreed was a key challenge for the months
ahead.

One Blair aide said: "We have gone full circle. In the first term, there were
lots of claims about delivery but no one noticed it. Now it is happening, people
are experiencing it but it is largely unreported by the national media."

Partly because of Iraq, the good news is being overshadowed. Sir Nigel Crisp,
the NHS chief executive, said in his annual report this month that "something
big" is happening as the extra money delivers "sustained and accelerating"
improvements. The take-up rate for the Government's tax credits hit a record 90
per cent, helping six million families. Unemployment fell to its lowest level
for 29 years. But all that barely registered in the media.

Other policies beneath the Westminster radar may pay dividends in the real
world. Five million carers who look after sick or elderly relatives will get
special rights to request to work part-time and six million working adults
without five GCSEs will be offered free tuition to help them move up the
employment ladder. Measures to help millions of people suffering from chronic
diseases such as asthma will follow shortly. Those ideas grew out of Labour's
much-mocked "Big Conversation" with the voters. It is clever politics. So is Mr
Blair's intense focus on anti-social behaviour, which wins few headlines but, as
new powers take effect, is starting to make a difference. The economic stability
delivered since 1997 is taken for granted. But perhaps it explains a remarkable
ICM opinion poll this week that showed, for all Mr Blair's problems, when people
are asked how they would vote in a general election, Labour enjoys a four-point
lead over the Tories. "Without Iraq, we would be 15 points ahead", one Labour
strategist told me.

If I were a Tory strategist, I would be asking why my party is not 10 points in
front. Remember that Labour under Neil Kinnock enjoyed big poll leads over the
Tories which melted away at election time. At this stage of the 1987-1992
parliament, the Labour opposition was 11 points ahead; the Tories won the next
election by an eight-point margin.

This week's ICM survey will matter more in the long run than a YouGov poll which
asked people how they would vote in next month's European elections. Among those
"very likely" to vote, the Tories were on 31 per cent, Labour 23 per cent, the
anti-EU United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) 18 per cent and the Liberal
Democrats 15 per cent.

The Tories and Labour suspect UKIP's apparent surge is real. With perhaps only
one in four voters likely to turn out, both main parties are fighting a pretty
negative campaign designed mainly to get their core vote out. Labour says that
"Britain is working" but screams loudest about the threat of "Tory cuts" while
the Tories attack Labour's failure to delivery under the theme "let down by
Labour".

Both campaigns are hardly likely to "reconnect" ordinary people with politics.
At the same time, Labour folk complain politics is seen as "abstract" and say
that explains why the Government does not get the credit for its hard-won
economic prize or investment in public services.

"We realise that we have got to grow up a bit," said one Blair adviser. "People
are not going to thank us or love us. We've just got to let the changes work
through and hope people realise that things have improved."

Ministers now recognise there is little point in them trumpeting their
achievements from the rooftops. The new strategy is to secure "third-party
endorsements". People are more inclined to believe professionals than
politicians, a legacy of the rows about "spin" and Mr Blair's huge "trust
problem".

All roads lead back to Iraq: the biggest dent in Mr Blair's trust ratings was
surely made by him taking the country to war on a false prospectus.

An improvement on the ground in Iraq will not restore Mr Blair's personal
standing. But it might keep Iraq off the front pages and allow domestic issues
to the fore. The Prime Minister is not counting his chickens. The current
problems in Iraq are much worse than he ever imagined. But if he can find a way
through, he could be in a remarkably strong position for next year's general
election. The dark cloud that has eclipsed his second term may yet have a silver
lining.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              45 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 29, 2004, Saturday

MATTHEW NORMAN'S COLUMN: JOAN COLLINS

BYLINE: MATTHEW NORMAN

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 34 words


NOW that Joan Collins has come out for the UK Independence Party, no doubt
she'll have the courage of her anti-European convictions and visit the South of
France one final time to sell her villa.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              46 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 28, 2004

Voters in the know over EU dangers

BYLINE: ANDREW ALEXANDER

SECTION: ED_4TH_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 836 words


THE TORIES scent blood in the European Parliament elections. Voters are every
day more appalled by Tony Blair's crusade in Iraq and fed up with his Euromania.
Added spice comes from the prospect of the Liberal Democrats being beaten into
fourth place by the United Kingdom Independence Party.

Few things gladden the heart of Tory MPs more than seeing Lib-Dems humiliated.

All the same, that pleasure is being bought at a price. The UKIP draws
disproportionately on normally Conservative supporters. If that trend persists,
it will cost the party seats at a general election.

Do not worry, insists Smith Square. Come the eventual chance to get rid of Blair
(or Brown) and UKIP defectors will return to the fold.

Probably true. All the same, there's no mistaking the Tories' uneasiness.

The UKIP, after a rather dubious history, is now run by a former Tory whip.

It has Bob Kilroy-Silk as a leading campaigner. And the redoubtable Joan Collins
adds her unique touch.

UKIP successes on June 10 could provide the magic political ingredient -
momentum. When a party achieves credibility, sympathisers feel they would not be
wasting their votes.

And there are many sympathisers. A recent opinion poll suggested that more than
50 per cent of electors would vote to leave the EU, if continuing trade was
guaranteed. Some 37 per cent said leave, come what may.

This is a continuing problem for Michael Howard. He is a determined Eurosceptic,
but whenever Blair teases him that his party really wants to leave the EU, he
fiercely denies the very thought.

Naturally, he does not want to reopen old wounds and upset the Kenneth
Clarke-ites. But there are many Tory MPs who would indeed like to leave.

They believe, too, that the demands Howard is pledged to - no new constitution,
a return of fisheries policy to the UK, massive reforms of the Common
Agricultural Policy and an end to the tidal wave of Brussels regulations - will
provide a chance to leave in the face of EU resistance.

WE HAVE an interesting position. Both Blair and Howard believe that the very
thought of leaving would cause widespread public alarm. Yet the opinion polls
suggest that a large chunk of the electorate is inclined that way.

The fear factor was voiced by my esteemed colleague Stephen Glover in the Mail
on Tuesday. Eloquent and harsh as his criticisms of the EU were, he concluded
that we would be 'mad' to cast ourselves into 'the unknown'.

What unknown? Our trade would continue. Britain is the rest of the EU's biggest
export market, even bigger than the USA. Moreover, we buy more from them than
they do from us. Curbing that trade would appal European businesses and their
employees, and could breach World Trade Organisation rules.

Leaving would also allow us to make our own regulations, not follow Brussels
dictates - a real boost for British business. We would also have the benefit of
cheaper food, as well as ending our hefty payments into the CAP.

The fourth-largest economy in the world does not need to fear about 'unknowns'.
It is the 'knowns' that are alarming. Brussels is unrepentant about regulation.
And a high-level report authorised by Romano Prodi, president of the European
Commission, calls for pan-European tax rates, wage rules and political parties.

We have been warned.

POOR Tony Blair. Suddenly a solution to the deepening disaster of Iraq hoves in
sight. When we create a 'sovereign' Iraq government in July, he declared on
Monday, it must have the final say in the role of the 150,000-strong occupation
forces.

Of course it must, if sovereignty is to have any real meaning.

For a moment, a vision appears of the new government expressing a popular Iraqi
wish and telling us to get out. Blessed relief! It might be an ignominious end
to a disastrous adventure, but it would be better than hanging around to be shot
at, blown up and generally scorned - all of which takes its toll on Blair's
standing at home and abroad.

But within hours, Washington let him down. It says the new government will not
be allowed to veto the activities of the armed forces. There will only be
'consultations'.

Blair, pathetically anxious to avoid an open breach with Washington, then goes
into reverse and says the occupation forces must remain free to make their own
operational decisions.

Not surprisingly, the Security Council asks how could a 'sovereign' government
not be in control of coalition forces? Watch that space.

WHEN the Tories ask searching questions about Iraq - not that they do it very
often - Labour accuses them of 'letting down our boys'. They are, in fact, doing
the very opposite.

Our boys spend a lot of time inquiring among themselves if anyone understands
the rationale for their current position - though they usually put it in the
vernacular.

They would find it reassuring, not disheartening, if the official Opposition
would ask the Government the same question (not in the vernacular, of course).

END

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              47 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

The dictatorial voice of Europe simply takes my breath away

BYLINE: By Tom Utley

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1018 words

A barrister friend, defending somebody on a drink-drive charge, asked the
arresting officer why he had suspected that his client had been drinking. The
policeman replied, with a sing-song rhythm to his voice: "His eyes were glazed,
his speech was slurred, there was alcohol on his breath."

My friend thought that the answer sounded rehearsed. So he asked the officer:
"Where did you learn to say that?"

The policeman flushed with pleasure and replied: "At Hendon Police College,
sir." Laughter in court.

Ever since Barbara Castle first introduced the breathalyser to Britain in the
1960s, the police have been flouting the law that says they are not allowed to
test a motorist's breath unless they have a good reason to suspect him of having
been drinking.

On the one occasion in my life when I was breathalysed, I was stopped not for
driving erratically, but because one of my brake-lights wasn't working - not, I
would have thought, prima facie evidence that I had been drinking. As it
happened, I had been drinking, and the breath-test proved positive. So I had no
excuse.

If I had protested in court that the police had no right to subject me to a
breath test, just because one of my brake-lights was defective, then the officer
would probably have come out with a variation on that line taught at Hendon. He
would have had the test results to back him up. So I made no fuss, and took the
punishment that I deserved. (I can see that mine is a very bad example, in every
sense.)

But I have often wondered what I would have done if the result had been
negative. Would I have protested that the police had no right to test my breath,
just because my brake-light didn't work? I very much doubt it.

I would have behaved like the thousands of innocent motorists stopped at random
and breath-tested every Christmas for no reason at all. I would have felt
virtuous and relieved, and said no more about it. So it is that random
breath-testing has been allowed to exist and to spread in Britain - in fact, but
not in law - for nearly 40 years.

This is not to say that the law should be changed to accept the truth that
random breath-testing goes on every day, and to give Parliament's blessing to
it. As long as the present rules apply, they will at least make the police think
twice before flagging a driver down, without good reason.

The rules are a reminder that, in this country, the police are the servants, and
not the masters of the people. They are there to protect us, not to delay and
humiliate us by the roadside whenever the fancy takes them.

This week, the Government has come under renewed pressure to amend the law, so
as to give the police the official authority to conduct the random breath-tests
that they have been conducting unofficially for decades.

Some Britons have wanted this for years - in particular, the Campaign Against
Drinking and Driving, many of whose members have lost people they loved in
accidents caused by drunken drivers. You can understand how they feel, and how
their judgment may have been clouded by grief. But this new pressure comes from
the European Commission, whose aim is to harmonise the laws governing drinking
and driving throughout the EU.

Our own Government is said to be resisting the commission's demands. It has come
in for some fierce criticism from Europe because of its stand.

Ad Hellemons, the president of Tispol, the European traffic police network, put
it like this: "We can't understand why governments would want to protect
drink-drivers."

That seems to me to be a very European way of seeing things. Mr Hellemons speaks
with the authentic voice of a continent well used to being overrun by dictators
- from Napoleon to Hitler and Stalin - and well used to looking on the state and
its agents as the masters of the people. In Britain, we have been much luckier.
We have a tradition of freedom that most continental Europeans simply don't
understand. The question for us is not: "Why would governments want to protect
drink-drivers?" The question that any free-born Briton should ask is: "Why would
governments want to subject sober drivers to roadside breath tests, without any
reasonable excuse?"

But there is an even more important question that we should be asking: "What has
any of this got to do with the EU?" Britain's arrangements for dealing with
drunken drivers, on British soil, are surely a matter for us alone.

I felt the same way when I read that a new European directive was about to come
into force, governing the way in which railway timetables are issued throughout
the EU. From now on, the system by which British train companies produce two
timetables a year - one for the summer and one for the winter - is to be banned.

The EU insists that there should be only one annual timetable, and that it
should be published in December. If I have interpreted the rules correctly,
British companies will still be allowed to put on extra services in the summer,
but, from now on, these must be advertised in the once-a-year timetable, months
before they become available. It is all quite incredibly stupid and complicated.

I can understand how these new arrangements may simplify train travel on the
European mainland. Not only are there fewer seasonal variations in demand for
train services on the Continent, where the weather is more consistent, but you
can board a train in any of the capitals of continental Europe that will take
you through six or seven different countries.

A part of the romance of train travel in Europe is to look at a single
departures board, advertising services to Milan, Berlin, Moscow and Madrid. But
in Britain, we have only one international train service. Why should a passenger
wanting to travel from Chelmsford to Ipswich have to struggle with an
over-complicated timetable, introduced under a rule designed for the convenience
of travellers from Naples to Ostend?

It is time that the EU woke up to the fact that Britain is an island, with its
own needs and traditions. If Britons are turning increasingly towards the UKIP,
the European Commission has only itself to blame.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              48 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

Tory sell-out

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 27

LENGTH: 132 words

SIR - I find it puzzling that a man of Alan Sked's intellectual calibre should
support the Conservatives on the basis that they are the only party that can
secure our withdrawal from the European Union (Letters, May 27).

The reality is that the Conservatives under Michael Howard remain as committed
as they have always been to our continuing EU membership.

Conservative candidates must pledge to support the manifesto aims of the
European People's Party, including the phasing out of the national veto, a
pan-European president and foreign minister, a pan-European tax, a European
police force, a European army, and the single currency.

Dr Sked's criticisms of the UK Independence Party pale into insignificance by
comparison with this betrayal.

Hugo Miller

Horsham, W Sussex

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              49 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

Tory sell-out

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 27

LENGTH: 79 words

SIR - It must be galling for Alan Sked to have to watch UKIP's astonishing
success under our current leader, Roger Knapman.

It must have been a very difficult decision for him to pledge his vote to the
Conservatives, who took us into the EU and are still totally committed to our
continuing membership of it - the very thing he fought against when he was
UKIP's leader. Sour grapes appear to have seriously affected the whine.

Graham Booth MEP (UKIP)

Paignton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              50 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

BRITAIN'S RED LINE' STRATEGY IS WEARING THIN AS THE REFERENDUM CAMPAIGN STALLS;
 THE GOVERNMENT HAS OBSERVED STRICT RADIO SILENCE ON SELLING THE CASE

BYLINE: ROBIN COOK

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1193 words


Does Tony Blair have any idea how he is going to win his referendum on the
European constitution? I ask this not as a rhetorical question, but really
wanting to know the answer. If anyone in Downing Street does have a winning
strategy I cannot spot it in the conduct of the Government since they committed
themselves to a referendum. On the contrary, ever since they performed a
gloriously inelegant U-turn over holding a referendum, the Government has
behaved in a manner calculated to increase their prospects of losing it.

First there is the new, tougher approach to the negotiations on the constitution
entering their endgame. There is a mystery here. The truth is that Britain had
already done exceptionally well out of the negotiations.

Ministers had seen off attempts to expand the powers of the European Union that
might have compromised our control of North Sea oil. They had struck a deal on
the Charter of Rights on the basis that it would not change national law. They
had blocked moves to make it easier to slip through amendments to the
constitution.

More importantly, Britain had secured constitutional changes that ought to be
welcomed, not opposed, by those who sit up at night terrified of a Federalist
Europe. For the first time national parliaments will have a specific right to
object to proposals by the Commission, with a presumption that objections by a
third of them would block any directive.

Far from conferring more power on the Commission, the constitution will shift
the balance of power towards the Council of Ministers, who represent the
national democracies of Europe. The new, permanent President of the Council will
be a powerful figure in Brussels representing the member states rather than the
Commission.

If ministers are serious about winning a referendum they ought to be trumpeting
these diplomatic successes. Instead they keep them under wraps as tightly as if
the intelligence agencies had classified them as secret.

Meantime, ministers have flung themselves into the negotiations with renewed
determination to defend every British "red line", a patriotic metaphor first
used to describe the resolute stand of the 93rd Highlanders at Balaclava against
the massed Russian cavalry. An uncomfortably apt analogy as the superannuated
general staff in the Crimea kept referring to the enemy by habit as the French,
despite the fact that France was their ally.

The reality is that most of our famous red lines are at no risk of being
overrun, but by constantly proclaiming defiance in defence of British interests
the Government creates an image of the draft constitution as a threat that must
be resisted. It is hard to conceive how within a year or so they can perform a
volte face and successfully urge the British public to welcome the same
constitution which they are now so busily resisting.

Then there is the strange case of the campaign that has not barked. At the time
of the decision to back a referendum Downing Street was busy briefing that Tony
Blair relished the opportunity to sell the positive case for Europe. A
referendum on the constitution was in fact a cunning plan to expose its
opponents as covert supporters of British withdrawal.

Since then, the Government has observed strict radio silence on selling the case
for Europe. We are in the closing stages of an election campaign for the
European Parliament. There could not be a more relevant time to be advertising
the case for positive engagement in the European institutions. But the campaign
of the Government for the European elections opened with an attack on Michael
Howard for being a closet Thatcherite, and followed up this week with a party
political broadcast highlighting the ambitions of Oliver Letwin to slash public
spending. These are legitimate political points, and may yet be central issues
in the next election. They do not, though, add up to a positive case for British
membership of the Union.

Ironically, the only people getting across a message about Europe in these
elections are the UK Independence Party. The very title of Independence Party
sums up the anachronistic chauvinism of their platform, but that is all the more
reason not to leave them a clear field.

There have been only two well-reported speeches on Europe from Cabinet ministers
and both portrayed Europe as a potential threat to the British culture of
enterprise and the Government's predilection for deregulation. It has been left
to exile figures such as Stephen Byers to make "the patriotic case" for Europe.
There is indeed a powerful case to be made on grounds of national interest for
Britain being a full member of the European Union. A clear majority of our
exports are sold throughout the European single market. At any one time there
are over 100,000 British citizens taking up their right of freedom of movement
in other European countries, probably over a million since Britain became a
member. The imminent Financial Services Action Plan will open up new
opportunities on the Continent for the City which would not have been possible
if Britain had not been a party to the negotiations.

Conversely, when Britain is not fully engaged our national interests are
undermined. Since we chose to stay out of the euro, Britain's share of foreign
investment has collapsed, and for the latest year was barely a quarter of its
level before the launch of the euro. I am confident that one day Britain will
join the single currency. My anxiety is that we will only do so when such costs
of staying out have become too painfully visible and Britain will again be cast
in the role of running to catch up on European initiatives taken by others.

Yet focusing on a narrow calculation of the national interest would be a
mistake. The balance sheet of any such calculation is overwhelmingly positive,
but that is not the big picture. The real value of a political union as broad as
the European continent is that it gives all its members a position of strength
to which none could ever aspire on their own.

The European Union is a logical and successful response to the lengthening
agenda of issues which can only be delivered on the domestic scene by agreement
on the international stage. From bargaining in the World Trade Organisation on
the rules under which we export, to negotiations in the Kyoto process to halt
global warming, the common front of the European Union gives each of us greater
leverage to secure our objectives. The perpetual complaint of the Eurosceptics
about loss of sovereignty ignores the reality that Britain would be weaker in
the world, not stronger, if we stood alone.

Yet this strategic case for Europe is rarely heard. This is a disastrous failure
of political leadership that is allowing the opponents of Europe to set the
terms of debate. What makes it all the more disappointing is that Tony Blair
began as the most pro-European Prime Minister for a generation. If he does not
soon fulfil his promise to convince the public of the case for membership, he
may end as the Prime Minister under whom Britain gained influence in Europe but
Europe lost support in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              51 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - INDEPENDENCE PARTY POSES A REAL THREAT

BYLINE: R LEE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 165 words


DAILY Mirror columnist Brian Reade has attacked the right-wing UK Independence
Party which is campaigning for Britain to leave the EU. He fears voter apathy
will contribute to their success at the forthcoming European elections on June
10. Many readers agree...

BRIAN Reade was completely right to slate the UK Independence Party - it is
dangerous (Daily Mirror, 27 May).

It claims that Britain could leave the EU without our trade being affected. It
says if we don't sell our goods to the EU we could sell them elsewhere.

But if that was true we would already be doing it.

It also reckons that if we left, the EU would still buy from us at current
levels. This is nonsense because countries have an obligation to trade with EU
partners.

I fear that on June 10 the UK will gain a large number of apathetic EU MEPs who
could contribute to the UK having to leave it.

Doing so would result in the loss of millions of jobs - and that's a fact.

R Lee, Witney, Oxon

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              52 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - INDEPENDENCE PARTY POSES A REAL THREAT

BYLINE: ALAN CLAY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 122 words


DAILY Mirror columnist Brian Reade has attacked the right-wing UK Independence
Party which is campaigning for Britain to leave the EU. He fears voter apathy
will contribute to their success at the forthcoming European elections on June
10. Many readers agree...

JOAN Collins is the latest celebrity to join the UK Independence Party.

Celebrities often live abroad to avoid paying tax in Britain - Joan, it seems,
spends most of her time in the States and the South of France.

Isn't it rather at odds, then, that she should join an anti-Europe organisation?
Some rich celebrities may want us to opt out but ordinary people realise the
political and economic benefits of closer ties.

Alan Clay Wallasey, Wirral

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              53 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - INDEPENDENCE PARTY POSES A REAL THREAT

BYLINE: RICHARD PENDLEBURY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 101 words


DAILY Mirror columnist Brian Reade has attacked the right-wing UK Independence
Party which is campaigning for Britain to leave the EU. He fears voter apathy
will contribute to their success at the forthcoming European elections on June
10. Many readers agree...

-RECENTLY I attended a French market in Chester. Thousands flocked there and I
felt proud to be a European.

Then I heard a bell ringing and saw a group of middle-aged people trying to get
signatures for their anti-Europe petition. How sad they looked, as they shouted
from the sidelines.

Richard Pendlebury, Flint, Flintshire

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              54 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

DEAR MIRROR: THE GREAT DEBATE - INDEPENDENCE PARTY POSES A REAL THREAT

BYLINE: T SANTANGELI

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 87 words


DAILY Mirror columnist Brian Reade has attacked the right-wing UK Independence
Party which is campaigning for Britain to leave the EU. He fears voter apathy
will contribute to their success at the forthcoming European elections on June
10. Many readers agree...

-I CANNOT see any reason for the expense of a referendum on the EU.

If the vote of the public goes against Tony Blair's wishes, he will simply do
what he intends to do anyway, as he did over the Iraq war.

T Santangeli, St Helens, Merseyside

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              55 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 28, 2004

HOWARD IN EU BLITZ

LENGTH: 57 words


TORY chief Michael Howard is to launch a blitz on Brussels to try to stop voters
defecting to the UK Independence Party at June's Euro elections.

Mr Howard fears true blue Tories might be attracted by the UKIP's campaign to
quit the EU.

Today he will unveil posters declaring: "We don't want to live in a country
called Europe."


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              56 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

Howard attacks anti-EU party

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett, Greg Hurst and Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 16

LENGTH: 344 words


Michael Howard will make a savage attack on the United Kingdom Independence
Party (UKIP) next week, portraying it as a threat to British jobs, as evidence
mounts that the anti-EU party is eating away at Tory votes.

The Conservative leader will use a speech on Tuesday to set out his party's
position on the EU, saying that only the Tories offer a place in Europe without
giving up any more powers to Brussels.

UKIP, which wants to withdraw Britain from the EU, will be cast as a danger to
the economy, trade and employment. It is the first time in the campaign that
Tory strategists have acknowledged that the party poses a threat in the June 10
elections. They have been rattled by opinion polls and canvass returns showing
that support in rural heartland areas is drifting.

During a visit to Birmingham this week, Mr Howard was told by Andrew Griffiths,
a European candidate for the West Midlands, that this was most pronounced in
wealthy shire areas. Tory canvassers in areas such as mid-Worcestershire were
finding supporters saying that they planned to split their vote and use the
European elections as a protest against the EU.

It is, however, seen as a "soft vote" and when challenged by canvassers, people
say they will stay with the Conservatives, Mr Griffiths said.

Mr Howard suggested to him that Tory MPs in these seats could be used to lead
counter-attacks on the UKIP. Their efforts will be backed by an advertisement
campaign in local papers from today that will attempt to underline Mr Howard's
Eurosceptic credentials. It carries a quote from Mr Howard saying: "We don't
want to live in a country called Europe."

At the unveiling yesterday of anti-Labour adverts submitted by the public, the
Conservatives admitted that they were taking the threat from anti-EU parties
seriously.

Next week, when the focus of their campaign shifts to Europe, they will run a
double-headed campaign attacking Labour and the Liberal Democrats for
threatening British interests, and the UKIP for undermining the British economy.


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

Kilroy-Silk turns on the charm for voters UKIP's celebrity candidate causes a
stir on the campaign trail, reports Andrew Sparrow

BYLINE: by Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 480 words

YOU'RE standing for election and you meet a frail 85-year-old who served at
D-Day. You ask if he's going to the 60th anniversary celebrations and he says
his memories are too awful. Then, with a wrinkly, sun-tanned grin, you tell him:
"You should go. It might be the last thing you do."

For any conventional politician, this would be an oafish blunder. But this is
Robert Kilroy-Silk - or plain Kilroy to those who recognise him, which in
Northampton yesterday was just about everyone - and with his twinkly,
proletarian bonhomie he can make virtually anything sound charming.

Kilroy tells George Robinson, a Royal Engineer who cleared mines with his
bayonet, about the death of his own father in the Second World War. Then,
turning to the television cameras accompanying him, he says to Mr Robinson: "You
are what this is all about. People like you and my dad gave their lives so that
we could speak our minds and tell the truth."

More than 20 years after he last fought an election (as a Labour MP), Kilroy is
standing as a candidate for the United Kingdom Independence Party in the East
Midlands. The "truth" he wants to tell is that Britain should leave the European
Union.

"What I have felt, when I've been going around, is that I'm very, very rarely
going against the grain," says Kilroy to the media gang following him, which
includes an Austrian television crew. "Fifty-two per cent of the British people
would vote to pull out of the EU and we're the only party that says to them 'We
will give you what you want.' "

Since it was founded 11 years ago, UKIP has often been written off as an
assortment of cranks and amateurs, sometimes with unsavoury links to the far
Right.

This time, with the polls saying UKIP could beat the Liberal Democrats, it could
be very different. And with Kilroy, who presented a daily television talk show
for 18 years, UKIP has achieved a remarkable convergence between protest
politics and the celebrity culture. Striding through a market in a smart suit,
Kilroy is besieged by well-wishers and mobbed by autograph hunters. With the
exception of Tony Blair, it's hard to imagine anyone in politics with such a
high recognition factor, and unlike Blair, he does not get heckled.

Even though he was dropped by the BBC for making disparaging remarks about
Arabs, the black and Asian people out shopping are as friendly to him as anyone.

Kilroy recognises that being famous will not automatically make people vote for
him. Many people still do not seem to know what UKIP is, or even that elections
are taking place on June 10.

But in Northampton and Corby, Labour marginal areas where Kilroy was campaigning
yesterday, there seemed to be considerable disappointment with Mr Blair. Mr
Robinson, the Normandy veteran, was one of many former Labour voters who told
The Daily Telegraph he would not be voting for the party next month.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              58 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

UKIP is a pointless protest vote

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 25

LENGTH: 227 words

SIR - The UKIP today, I fear, is entirely unworthy of support, even as a protest
party. It has had four MEPs who have achieved little or nothing in the past five
years: one even called for increased powers for the European Parliament
vis-a-vis the European Commission; another made an almost incomprehensible
maiden speech in Devonian dialect.

Their often intellectually low-calibre candidates can achieve nothing at all in
the future, for the simple reason that the European Parliament has no powers to
grant or further United Kingdom independence.

Despite the democratically expressed desires of the east European and Baltic
peoples in referendums to join the EU, UKIP MEPs still voted against
enlargement, a right all these people had under the Treaty of Rome, once terms
had been mutually agreed with the European Commission.

Given that there is little reason to occupy seats and then vote No to
everything, one could easily conclude that UKIP candidates are in effect
standing for the money - salaries, pensions and expenses.

There is no rational reason for them to be there. Only Westminster can take us
out of the EU and the only party in a position to orchestrate that is the
Conservative Party and I for one shall be voting for it - despite all Lord
Tebbit's reasonable criticisms (Comment,

May 25).

Alan Sked

Founder, UKIP

London NI

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              59 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

UKIP is a pointless protest vote

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 25

LENGTH: 41 words

SIR - I am delighted that the UKIP is likely to do well in the EU elections
(report, May 24).

The main parties have simply told us what they want and ignored our views. I
relish punishing arrogance with my vote.

P.E. Arnott

Sheffield, S Yorks

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              60 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 27, 2004

Policy & Politics: Murdochs £19,000 for Tories

BYLINE: Sarah Hall Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 282 words


Rupert Murdoch's News International Ltd paid the Conservative party nearly
£19,000 after Michael Howard flew to Cancun to address media executives, new
figures from the Electoral Commission revealed yesterday.

The Tory leader gave a keynote speech at the News International global
conference in Mexico in March, reigniting suspicions that Mr Murdoch's British
papers - The Sun, The Times, The Sunday Times and the News of the World - will
desert Labour at the next election.

In his entry in the Commons register of members' interests, Mr Howard says the
company paid for three nights' hotel accommodation and meals, as well as return
air fares for himself and his wife Sandra. Yesterday, the Electoral Commission's
quarterly figures for political donations reveal Conservative Central Office was
paid £18, 951.59 for the trip.

The commission, an independent watchdog, published the political donations for
each major party in the first quarter of the year, and revealed the Tories had
edged ahead of Labour - with donations totalling £2,645,283 in the first three
months compared with Labour's £2,546,400.

That amount is slightly down on the £2,888,717.15 the Tories received in the
last three months of 2003 but still suggests Michael Howard's leadership has
prompted the return of the big donors. The figures also reveal that the UK
Independence party is the fourth richest party, receiving £251,750 in the first
three months of the year.

The Liberal Democrats received £947,262, while the Scottish National Party
received £115,069, the Greens £36,646 and the British National party £26,014.

The bulk of Labour's donations came from trade unions.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

POLITICS: TORY MADE POUNDS 180,000 DONATION WEEKS BEFORE PEERAGE

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 456 words


A WEALTHY Tory businessman gave pounds 180,000 to the Conservative party only
weeks before being awarded a peerage, records published yesterday show.

Irvine Laidlaw, a former tax exile, gave the money through his conferences
company, The Institute for International Research, at the end of March. Four
weeks later it was announced that he was one of only five Conservatives to be
awarded peerages. There is no suggestion of impropriety by Mr Laidlaw, but
yesterday questions were raised about whether the millionaire businessman told
the House of Lords Appointments Commission about his latest donation.

Lord Oakeshott, a leading Liberal Democrat peer, said: "This raises the serious
question about whether the Appointments Commission was aware of this large
donation when he was awarded this peerage." Mr Laidlaw's nomination is believed
to have been delayed announcement of new peers while the Lords Appointment
Commission examined his tax status.

The businessman who has given an estimated pounds 1.5m to the Tory party, is
reported to have agreed to renounce his status as a tax exile and return from
Monaco to assume his title.

The Conservative millionaire, to join the House of Lords next month, is believed
to have been nominated for a peerage by Iain Duncan Smith while he was Tory
leader. Several wealthy supporters have given cash to Michael Howard's party
between January and March this year.

Donors who appeared to have put their chequebooks away during Mr Smith's
leadership have reappeared, including the businessman Stuart Wheeler who in
February gave the Tories pounds 50,000. Others include Lady Victoria de
Rothschild, former wife of the banking tycoon Sir Evelyn, who gave pounds 50,000
and Frederick Forsyth, the author, who gave pounds 6,000. Rupert Murdoch's
company, News International, which owns TV channels and newspapers including The
Sun and The Sunday Times, paid for travel worth almost pounds 19,000 for Michael
Howard to address a conference in Cancun, Mexico.

The figures, from the Electoral Commission, which records cash received by
political parties, show that in the first quarter of this year the Tories
received pounds 2,645,283, and the Labour party pounds 2,546,400.

The Labour receipts were dominated by cash from the trades unions. But they also
included pounds 50,000 from Patrick Stewart, the Star Trek actor. The United
Kingdom Independence Party, which claims it has a pounds 2m war chest to fight
the June Euro elections, received only pounds 251,750 in the first part of the
year. But the Liberal Democrats pulled in nearly pounds 1m. That includes pounds
1,700 from Ms Julia Gash, who runs shops selling sex toys, and is an MEP
candidate for the party.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              62 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

TORY MADE POUNDS 180,000 DONATION WEEKS BEFORE PEERAGE

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Irvine Laidlaw: Takes seat in
the Lords next month

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 436 words


A TORY businessman gave pounds 180,000 to the Conservative Party only weeks
before being awarded a peerage, records published yesterday show.

Irvine Laidlaw, a former tax exile, gave the money through his conferences
company, The Institute for International Research, at the end of March. Four
weeks later it was announced that he was one of only five Conservatives to be
awarded peerages.

There is no suggestion of impropriety by Mr Laidlaw, but questions were raised
yesterday about whether the millionaire businessman told the House of Lords
Appointments Commission about his latest donation.

Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay, a Liberal Democrat peer, said: "This raises the
serious question about whether the Appointments Commission was aware of this
large donation when he was awarded this peerage." Mr Laidlaw's nomination is
believed to have been delayed while the Lords Appointment Commission examined
his tax status. The businessman who has given an estimated pounds 1.5m to the
party, is reported to have agreed to renounce his status as a tax exile and
return from Monaco to assume his title.

He is believed to have been nominated for a peerage by Iain Duncan Smith while
he was Tory leader and will join the House of Lords next month.

Several wealthy supporters have given cash to the party since Michael Howard
took over as Tory leader. Donors who appeared to have put their chequebooks away
during Mr Smith's leadership have reappeared, including the businessman Stuart
Wheeler who in February gave the Tories pounds 50,000. Lady Victoria de
Rothschild, former wife of the banking tycoon Sir Evelyn, gave pounds 50,000 and
Frederick Forsyth, the author, donated pounds 6,000. Rupert Murdoch's company,
News International, which owns television channels and newspapers including The
Sun, paid for travel worth almost pounds 19,000 for Mr Howard to address a
conference in Cancun, Mexico.

The Electoral Commission, which records cash received by political parties,
showed that in the first quarter of this year the Tories received pounds
2,645,283, and the Labour Party pounds 2,546,400.

The Labour receipts were dominated by cash from the trades unions, but they
included pounds 50,000 from Patrick Stewart, the Star Trek actor.

The United Kingdom Independence Party, which claims it has a pounds 2m war chest
to fight the European elections in June, received pounds 251,750 in the first
part of the year. The Liberal Democrats pulled in nearly pounds 1m, including
pounds 1,700 from Julia Gash, who runs shops selling sex toys, and is an MEP
candidate for the party.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              63 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

WHY I APPLAUD THE RISE OF JOAN COLLINS AND HER FRIENDS AS A POLITICAL FORCE;
 ULTIMATELY THE DEBATE OVER THE NEXT 18 MONTHS WILL BE OVER WHETHER

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1177 words


How easy it is to despair about Britain's bizarrely erratic relationship with
Europe. Supposedly pro-European ministers protest about their red lines, making
the new constitution sound like a frightening monster that has to be tamed. Tony
Blair succumbs to the hysterical demands for a referendum on a treaty that is
far less significant than the one signed in Maastricht more than a decade ago.

The powerful newspapers are gearing up for another assault in advance of the
next EU summit in July. Polls suggest that the United Kingdom Independence Party
(Ukip) is soaring. Other European countries look on with an almost bewildered
amusement. Here they go again, the Brits getting into a neurotic state about not
very much at all.

We cannot go on like this for much longer. Something has to give. It is in this
context that we should raise a glass to Joan Collins, Robert Kilroy Silk and the
growing army of former Conservative MPs leading Ukip. They recognise that the
crunch time is coming too.

Supporters of Ukip are deluded, fantasising about a Britain that did not exist
and could not exist in the future, but they are honest in their conclusions.
They want to pull out of the European Union. This is a position that will
command some limited support. I am not surprised the party is climbing up the
opinion polls.

Ardent Eurosceptics have reflected on the logic of their position and concluded
rightly that they cannot argue for Britain to remain in the EU. They are opposed
to the new constitution and appalled at the implications of Britain joining a
single currency at some point in next century or two. Therefore they want
nothing to do with this institution.

In being open about what they seek, Ukip's leading lights place fresh pressure
on the Conservatives' current position. With considerable political skill,
Michael Howard has adopted a tone that comforts his party's small number of
pro-Europeans. Yes, he wants to be part of the European Union. There is no
question about that. Mr Howard even consulted Ken Clarke about his recent speech
in Berlin in which he set out his approach to Europe. Mr Clarke and a few others
cling to this change of tone, this political lifeline for pro-European Tories.
Yet the tone is at odds with the substance, as Mr Clarke knows deep down.

The Conservatives reject any revised EU constitution and seek to negotiate
instead a much looser framework in which countries can pick and mix their way
around. Mr Howard calls it "variable geometry", a deceptively grand and
intimidating term for what in reality would be a form of anarchy. Even if the
vision was workable, it cannot be realised because no other country in the EU
happens to share it. The Conservatives seek to be at the heart of a Europe that
does not exist. At least some of them do. I suspect that quite a few - the Bill
Cashes, the John Redwoods - are closer to the Ukip position. They dare to
reflect on the logical consequences of their arguments.

So the rise of Joan Collins as a political force helps pro-Europeans who know
that ultimately the debate over the next 18 months will be over whether Britain
remains in Europe or pulls out. Of course we should have moved on from that
debate long ago, in 1973, or 1975 after the referendum, or in 1983 when Labour
pledged to pull out in the election and was slaughtered, or in 1997 when a
pro-European Prime Minister was elected. But for different reasons we have not
moved away. We are still there asking the basic question. Do we want to be part
of this?

Even now, Downing Street is wondering when the next onslaught will begin in the
newspapers. Will the D-Day commemorations scheduled for next month be the cue
for a barrage of jingoistic anti-European propaganda? Perhaps the European
championships in Portugal will do the trick. One way or another, the gloves will
be off in the build-up to the next European summit in July, the one that is
likely to agree to a new constitution.

The view in senior government circles is that the odds are 60-40 in favour of an
agreement this July. In the build-up, British ministers are dealing with two
wholly irreconcilable and conflicting perceptions. Senior figures from other
European countries cannot believe the fuss that the government here is making.
They complain that it is like the worst days of Margaret Thatcher. This is how
they see it: In preparing the draft constitution, the British won more
concessions than any other country. What is more, it was a senior British
diplomat, Sir John Kerr, who wrote the final document. And what has happened?
British ministers have stormed in with more of their red lines. Britain keeps on
coming back and asking for more.

That is not how it is seen in parts of Britain. Much of the media portray these
ministers as weak-kneed, gullible fools dancing to the tunes of their European
masters. It is therefore not altogether surprising when the likes of Jack Straw
surfaces from his negotiations to declare on the BBC that he is "batting for
Britain", as if he has been swatting away sinister opponents, rather than
working constructively with partners.

There have been times when new Labour has been unnecessarily weak, hopelessly
timid, in dealing with the Eurosceptic media. In the build-up to the 1997
election, for example, Tony Blair told The Sun that he "loved the pound". Why
did he feel the need to utter such a preposterous banality when he was 20 points
ahead in the polls? The tone of that election campaign constrained him when he
was at his most authoritative, in the never- ending honeymoon after the first
landslide. But I have some sympathy for his current predicament, leading the
only government in the EU that faces such a sceptical opposition party supported
by some of the most powerful newspapers in the world. No other leader in the EU
faces such absurdly distorting pressures.

Even so, British ministers are in a stronger position than they probably dare to
realise. The enlargement of the EU changes the dynamics, almost certainly in
Britain's favour and to the detriment of the old Franco-German axis. For once,
when Britain asserts its red lines, it will not be doing so in isolation. Sadly
and embarrassingly, it will have more of these red lines than other countries,
but in each case it will also have allies, no longer isolated in its
ostentatious awkwardness. The strength of the British economy gives it a new
authority in the EU in the same way that Germany acquired growing influence
partly as a result of its economic power. In spite of Iraq, Tony Blair is still
a big player in Europe, buttressed by a big and secure majority in the Commons
and his experience as a long- serving political leader.

It would be an act of perversity to leave now, and yet as Ukip rightly suggest
that is the only alternative route available to those who oppose all the key
developments in the European Union. When voters come to realise the starkness of
the choice, it will be the Eurosceptics who are in despair.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              64 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: VOTE FOR EUROPE

BYLINE: PHILIP C JAMES

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 185 words


Sir: The biggest Euro-lie of all is the UK Independence Party claim that the
European Union is undemocratic.

We, the people, will shortly be able to vote for Members of the European
Parliament. MEPs have the power to hold the European Commission to account and
an equal right with national government ministers to shape the European laws
that affect us.

No Briton can seek election to the World Trade Organisation or the United
Nations. No Briton can vote for their representative in Nato or who occupies the
White House. Far from being undemocratic, the EU is the only international
organisation affecting our lives that we can influence directly through
democratic elections. But only if we use that power by voting on 10 June.

We should select our MEPs with as much care as our MPs. Voters who trust us on
national issues such as scrapping the unfair Council Tax and international
issues such as opposition to Blair's war in Iraq can trust the Liberal Democrats
to promote British interests and those of Europe in the many areas where they
are one and the same.

PHILIP C JAMES

Bath

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              65 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: VOTE FOR EUROPE

BYLINE: CLIVE HADFIELD

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 86 words


Sir: I am appalled by Johann Hari's column (Opinion, 26 May). Having been a
member of the UK Independence Party for many years I have the experience to
identify the bogusness of trying to identify the UKIP as just another bunch of
right-wing fascists. Like many, many members of the UKIP I am not right-wing and
object to the idea.

There is an important debate to be had here on Europe. So let's have it and
let's not trade in the politics of misleading mischief.

CLIVE HADFIELD

Appledore, Kent

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              66 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: VOTE FOR EUROPE

BYLINE: ALAN CLAWLEY

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 39 words


Sir: What exactly have UKIP's three Members of the European Parliament been
doing in the European Parliament to persuade the United Kingdom to withdraw from
the organisation that pays their salaries?

ALAN CLAWLEY

Birmingham

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              67 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

BRIAN READE: UNION JACK ASSES

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 255 words

HIGHLIGHT: HAS-BEEN: Kilroy


IN the 19th century it was the Liberals, in the 20th it was the Labour Party and
in the 21st century the party tipped to bring a seismic shift to the British
political landscape is the UKIP - short for U Kill Immigrants Please.

According to its supporters - wild-eyed pensioners with mad haircuts, Union
Jacks in their front gardens and Vera Lynn posters in their toilets who refuse
to use their corner shop because it's run by our "colonial cousins" - they are
set to become the new opposition to Labour. Hmm.

They will undoubtedly do well at the European elections, mainly because most
people would rather stay in and cut their grandma's corns than vote for an MEP,
Tony Blair is due for a well-earned kick in the place where his balls should be,
and the only continental issue bothering us next month is Euro 2004.

But there it will end. Because their sole policy of dragging Britain out of
Europe, leaving us sinking halfway between Uncle Sam and bankruptcy, is a joke.

Just like the phoney patriots who back them. Tory mutants from Planet Redwood,
dying aristocrats, ex-BNP skinheads turned businessmen, tax protesters,
morris-dancers, and a trinity of glittering celebrities - Joan Collins, Robert
Kilroy-Silk and Patrick Moore.

Sorry, an old trout who spends half her life in California and the South of
France, a failed MP/daytime TV host who recharges his batteries in his Spanish
holiday home, and an eccentric buffoon who has spent the vast majority of his
life on Mars. True Brits one and all.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              68 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

DEAR MIRROR: A BRIT OF A HYPOCRITE

BYLINE: RICHARD WILLIAMS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 57 words


I READ with amusement that actress Joan Collins has been recruited by the UKIP
in their desperate bid to become the third party at the Euro elections (Daily
Mirror, May 25). Ms Collins says she is proud to be British and believes the
UKIP represents the people. So why spend most of her time in St Tropez?

Richard Williams SE London

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              69 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

UKIP fails to identify source of £2m fund

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 17

LENGTH: 723 words


THE UK Independence Party refused last night to identify the source of its
projected £2 million European election fund after new figures showed donor
income of just £250,000 in the first three months of this year.

The party has booked 1,000 poster sites and is distributing more than six
million leaflets in a high-profile campaign before the June 10 vote for the
European Parliament, in which it currently holds three seats.

The latest register of donations published by the Electoral Commission yesterday
disclosed income worth little more than a tenth of UKIP's election budget.

Both Labour and the Conservatives are understood to be alarmed by the prospect
of being outspent by what they regard as a marginal party campaigning for
Britain's withdrawal from the EU.

Yesterday Gary Titley, the leader of Labour's MEPs, said that the UKIP "had more
money than sense" after forcing it to admit that a newspaper advertisement had
contained false information.

The advert, published yesterday in London and Glasgow editions of the Metro
newspaper, asserted incorrectly that there would be no polling stations in "your
region". The Electoral Commission immediately ruled that this was "completely
misleading" and ordered UKIP to pay for another advert correcting the errors.

"We have always known that UKIP were a party of nasty extremists," said Mr
Titley.

"Now it also appears that while they are temporarily rich, they are also
stupid."

A UKIP spokesman said: "We will be correcting this advert. It was placed by our
media-buying company in areas which do not have postal-only voting. It was a
mistake."

He declined to discuss where the money for UKIP's campaign had come from, saying
that any significant donations received after March 31 would be disclosed later,
after the elections.

Most of the donations registered by the party in the first quarter of this year
were "help in kind", including printing from a Margate-based company called Alan
Bown Ltd. But Paul Sykes, a Yorkshire tycoon with a personal fortune estimated
at £450 million, is believed to have given a six-figure sum to UKIP in recent
weeks. He has described the June 10 elections as the "Waterloo" for people
opposed to EU membership.

The Electoral Commission register showed yesterday that the Tories received £2.6
million in the first three months of this year, compared with Pounds 2.5 million
received by Labour and £950,000 by the Liberal Democrats.

Although the Conservative income is significantly higher than in the same period
last year, the money will barely cover the party's £10 million annual running
costs. Indeed, there is little evidence that either the Tories or Labour are
amassing "war chests" for the next general election campaign. The largest
Conservative benefactor was George Magan, a former party treasurer, who gave
£400,000. Other notable donors included £180,000 from IIR Ltd, a company owned
by Irvine Laidlaw, who recently received a Tory peerage.

The party also got £200,000 from the Intercapital Private Group which owns the
City Index betting firm founded by Stuart Wheeler, who also made a £60,000
personal gift. He is a past £5 million donor who cut funding before Iain Duncan
Smith was replaced by Michael Howard last year.

The Tory leadership has been encouraged by the influx since then of City money
from figures such as Stanley Fink, the chief executive of Man Group who gave
£30,000, and Henry Keswick, the chairman of Jardine Matheson Holdings who
contributed £55,000.

The bulk of Labour's donations came from trade unions, which have once again
become the party's biggest source of income. Individual gifts included Pounds
100,000 from Derek Tullett, a pro-European financier, and £50,000 from Patrick
Stewart, an actor who appeared in Star Trek as Captain Jean-Luc Picard.

There was also a £10,000 donation from William Bollinger, prompting jokes within
party circles about "champagne socialists".

Labour has been cleared of alleged irregularities in reporting donations after
an inquiry by the Electoral Commission, it was announced yesterday. Although the
funding watchdog found "areas for improvement" in the party's procedures for
handling donations, it said officials had done all they could to comply with
complex reporting requirements.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              70 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

A dislike for Blair does not magically turn voters Tory

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Features; 26

LENGTH: 903 words


Michael Howard needs to accentuate the positive to win new supporters.

MICHAEL HOWARD has enthused the sales force, but has not yet won many new
customers. The Tories are doing better under his leadership, but very few yet
believe that they can win the next election -hence the rumblings of discontent
on the Tory right.

No one disputes that Tony Blair and Labour are very unpopular. His ratings have
plummeted. Yet Labour is, at worst, only four points behind the Tories in most
polls, and is still ahead according to the latest ICM survey. These figures are
a world away from the Tories' position from 1993-97, or Labour's in the late
1970s, when the Opposition party was at least ten and sometimes more than 20
points ahead.

The explanation lies in the most revealing polling question that Populus has
asked for The Times. Many questions are about whether a voter is satisfied or
dissatisfied with X or Y. But elections are about choices: you can strongly
disapprove of X but still prefer X to Y. That is what is happening now. A poll
in early May asking about the choice of government showed that nearly three
quarters of voters said that they were dissatisfied with Labour, slightly down
since February. This might appear damning for Mr Blair. But nearly three fifths
still preferred Labour to the Tories.

Moreover, two fifths said that they were dissatisfied with Labour but still
preferred them to the Tories. That is an awful lot of people who are fed up with
the Blair Government but not yet ready to change prime minister. This includes
half of floating voters -the roughly one third of the public who may change
party preference before the next election.

Why is Mr Howard failing to win over these dissatisfied voters? Of course, a
general election is still probably 11 months away, and Mr Howard has only been
Conservative leader for seven months. Just remember October's dismal Tory
conference. Since then, the morale of MPs and activists, the sales force, has
soared. Mr Howard is a highly competent, assured leader. More talented people
now want to become Tory MPs, in contrast to the lacklustre 2001 intake.

Tory supporters are also much more likely than Labour ones to say that they will
vote on June 10. This alone should ensure that the Tories will do very well in
winning councils in southern England, and in the London Assembly elections.

Yet rousing the committed is not enough. The Tories say that they are following
a two-stage strategy to win over the uncommitted. At present, their campaigning,
under the slogan "Let Down by Labour", is largely negative. All but two of the
15 most recent press releases on the Conservatives' website are negative. The
two exceptions set out Tory policy on housing and mobile phone masts. This is a
deliberate strategy, out of Lord Saatchi's well-tried campaign play book. But I
wonder if such all-out assaults are as effective as they were, any more than the
heavy-handed counter-attacks by Gordon Brown and John Prescott over alleged Tory
gaffes. All the stuff about Labour waste and Tory cuts sounds stale.

Voters are already disenchanted with politicians. They do not need another
reason not to vote for a party. Rather, they need a reason to support the
alternative.

One of the main reasons why the Tories are not doing better in the polls is that
most voters have not a clue what their policies are. The Tories say the second
stage of their strategy, after June 10, will be positive, setting out their
approach on public services.

Several questions need to be answered. First, Oliver Letwin needs to fill the
gaps in his February spending statement which concentrated on health, education
and pensions. He needs to explain what will happen to defence, law and order,
and transport, to answer all the alarmist warnings coming out of the Treasury
about billions of pounds of cuts. Second, the Tories need to explain how the
patients' and parents' passports will work. Contradictory messages have been
sent out. A "choice" agenda is a potential vote winner, but greater clarity is
vital.

The Tory policy vacuum has created an opening for other parties. The Liberal
Democrats, who may lose seats to the Tories in the South, are likely to be the
main beneficiaries of public criticism of Labour over Iraq. That explains Mr
Howard's messy intervention last week. What he said about a more candid British
approach in talks with President Bush was largely sensible and has happened this
week. Mr Howard was, of course, trying to distance himself from Mr Blair, not Mr
Bush. The net effect, however, is unlikely to help the Tories much.

The UK Independence Party has exploited the widespread anti-European mood and
won attention with its array of dated "celebrities". Robert Kilroy-Silk can win
headlines, and probably become an MEP, with his slick populism, but he is part
of the noise of politics, not its substance. If UKIP wins an extra seat or two,
it would be a protest vote. The Tories should not panic, though some may. The
Right will urge a hardening of Mr Howard's live and let live approach. But a
Tory shift towards Europhobia would play into Labour's hands.

Mr Howard has done a lot to make the Tories a serious political force again. But
he has yet to show the inclination or the will to turn them into a credible
alternative government. Attacking Labour is no longer enough for the customers.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              71 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

A new political dynasty

BYLINE: Hugh Rifkind

SECTION: Features; Times2; 3

LENGTH: 106 words


SPEAKING of such things (sort of), how thrilling to read that Joan Collins has
been adopted as a celebrity backer by the UK Independence Party. This is great
news. Despite already having top-notch celebrities on board who include the
dapper Robert Kilroy-Silk, the eye-rolling Sir Patrick Moore, the frost-bitten
Sir Ranulph Fiennes, and the nameless bloke who used to present One Man and His
Dog, I was still nursing a secret worry that the party of the ghoulish right
wasn't quite living up to its true ghoulish potential -even with Max Clifford
doing their publicity. But now they have Joan Collins, too. Good show.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

Not so silky

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 8

LENGTH: 92 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK, who secured the blessing of Joan Collins for the anti Europe
UK Independence Party, has won the less welcome support of the British National
Party. The BNP website embraces old perma-tan: "Good luck, Kilroy Silk...but you
picked the wrong party!"

It adds: "He has chosen the wrong party, not least because the bitter
faction-fighting within it dooms the UKIP to collapse amid recriminations,
skulduggery and law-suits just as soon as the desire to hang on to their few
seats on June 10 no longer holds them together."


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

Joan Collins flies the flag for independence

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 202 words

SEVERAL celebrities were wheeled out by the political parties yesterday to make
their contribution to the European election campaign.

For Labour, Patrick Stewart, the Star Trek actor, Ross Kemp, the former
EastEnders actor, and Prunella Scales, the actress, appeared at an event
designed to encourage people to vote by post.

The United Kingdom Independence Party named Joan Collins, the former Dynasty
star, as a new recruit and a supporter of its candidate Robert Kilroy-Silk. Miss
Collins said: "I do feel that my country - I am English - is losing a lot of
what I grew up with. I feel we are eroding ourselves to Brussels.

"I find it sad when I go to America and every school proudly flies the Stars and
Stripes. Nobody seems to want to fly the national flag in this country."

Mr Stewart urged people to vote by post in the combined European, local and
London mayoral and assembly elections on June 10. "It is simple and
straightforward, you can do it from your kitchen. Hopefully it will get more
people to do their civic duty," he said.

All-postal ballots are being piloted for the 14.4 million voters living in the
North East, the North West, the East Midlands, and Yorkshire and the Humber.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              74 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

Major Blair keeps a stiff upper lip Commons sketch

BYLINE: By Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News; Iraq: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 607 words

There is an uneasy look in Tony Blair's eyes. Like so many things about our
Prime Minister, it is hard to pin down, but when he allows his careworn charm to
lapse, he looks disconcertingly vulnerable.

Viewed for an hour from a distance of a few yards at the press conference he
gave yesterday, his eyes seemed sad and lonely, while also steely and
aggressive. His manner was that of an officer who is far too intelligent to
imagine that the war is going well, but who feels obliged to keep his end up and
to "make the best of the situation", as he remarked at one point.

This is not Dunkirk, but perhaps one of the early engagements before Dunkirk,
when Major Blair's sangfroid and his ability to cheer up even the bolshier men
under his command with an amusing remark have been undermined by lack of sleep
and by a debilitating sense of strategic confusion.

It is not that Major Blair has lost faith in the strategy himself, more that he
is losing faith in other people's ability to see through the fog of battle what
an excellent strategy it is. The questions at the press conference were devoted
almost exclusively to Iraq, and the Prime Minister's answers often seemed
directed more to the Iraqis than the British people.

Mr Blair wanted to make it "100 per cent clear" that on June 30 there will be
"full transfer of sovereignty" to the Iraqis. This promise of "real and genuine"
sovereignty is not one he makes to the British people when campaigning in the
European elections: he leaves that sort of rhetoric to the United Kingdom
Independence Party, which is perhaps why it is doing so well in the opinion
polls. It is only Iraq that brings out the Enoch Powell in Mr Blair. The Prime
Minister is turning, before our astonished eyes, into an Iraqi nationalist.
Perhaps this is mere camouflage, designed to hide from himself and from others
the plain fact that he has become a liberal imperialist.

But there is another, more astonishing possibility, namely that he is preparing
himself for a new career in Baghdad, running for high office on his proud record
of overthrowing the previous regime.

The necessary phrases trip from Mr Blair's tongue. He spoke yesterday of "the
sheer degradation of the country under Saddam" and the need for "building on the
appalling situation we inherited". His mission to improve public sector delivery
could easily be transferred from Britain to Iraq.

In his new guise of Iraqi patriot, Mr Blair is even willing to stand up to the
United States. A reporter asked him whether, after the transfer of sovereignty,
Iraq will be able to veto another American assault on Fallujah, of the kind
which cost hundreds of Iraqi lives.

Mr Blair replied: "Yes, that is the tough question. If you go into Fallujah . .
. that has to be done with the consent of the Iraqi government."

According to Mr Blair, the interests of Britain and America in Iraq are exactly
the same as those of the Iraqi people: we all want a "stable and democratic"
Iraq.

Nobody got round to asking what Britain and America would do if, by some
dreadful mishap, the Iraqis found themselves with a government that was
favourable to al-Qa'eda.

There can be no doubt that Mr Blair stands ready to do his duty. As he said
yesterday, "we must remain with this task in Iraq until the job is done",
because "the stability of the world" depends on it.

Let Anthony of Arabia ride forth, the latest in a long line of intrepid British
Arabists. If he triumphs, he will be able to tell us, with all due modesty, that
he has saved the world. If he perishes, let his epitaph be General Gordon's: the
Man of England circled by the sands.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              75 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 26, 2004

LEADER AS JOAN COLLINS BACKS THE UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY, WHAT DAMAGE WILL IT DO
TO THE MAIN PARTIES WITH ITS PLEDGE TO QUIT THE EU?; ALL OUT BATTLE

BYLINE: KIRSTY WALKER POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 712 words


ALL politicians will try to convince you they don't care about opinion polls.

They are lying. For in the last few days, one YouGov survey has united all the
main political parties and sent shockwaves throughout Westminster.

It reveals that the United Kingdom Independence Party is going to cause a
serious upset at the forthcoming local and European elections on June 10.

On current form, this single issue party - which advocates Britain's complete
withdrawal from the EU - is doing a staggering job of winning over the hearts
and minds of voters.

Their success is down to a number of factors. For a start, the British public
are fed up with mainstream politics. With voter apathy at its peak and turnout
expected to be around 30 per cent, growing numbers of people are looking to UKIP
as a form of protest. This is nothing new.

European elections are notorious for causing major upsets.

Just 15 years ago, the Green party finished a strong third behind Labour and the
Tories.

Under the new voting system, UKIP could easily gain a dozen seats. And,
according to the YouGov poll, beat the Liberal Democrats to third place. This
would be devastating for Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy, who has faced a barrage
of speculation over his health and ability to run his party.

But UKIP, which currently has only three MEPs, is more than simply a protest
party. It is much better financed and run than any of its rivals. The party's
profile is also growing every day after managing to pull off the extraordinary
political feat of attracting new celebrity backers.

British actress Joan Collins - who has never voted in her life - announced she
would be backing the party at the forthcoming elections. She declared: "I do
feel that my country - I am English - is losing a lot of what I grew up with. I
feel we are eroding ourselves to Brussels." The former Dynasty actress sat
alongside the former BBC chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk, who is standing as a
UKIP candidate.

Although rival parties may be keen to dismiss their credentials, both
celebrities are household names and hugely popular among an increasingly fed-up
and disaffected electorate.

And nobody in Westminster should underestimate this political coup. Every
political strategist knows that superstars add a much-needed "X factor" to the
boredom of political campaigning.

Just take a look at the success of Arnold Schwarzenegger in the US. At the 2001
general election, Labour spin doctors were clearly delighted to win the support
of actress Maureen Lipman, singer Charlotte Church and pop star Mick Hucknall.

Charles Kennedy yesterday attempted to laugh off Ms Collins's decision. He said:
"I still prefer to stick by Honor Blackman, who did describe me as more sexy
than Sean Connery at the last election."

But it is not just the Lib Dems who are nervous about UKIP's success. It is also
causing a major headache for Labour and Conservative party chiefs.

TORY leader Michael Howard has been desperate to sign up Ms Collins - who is an
eloquent, intelligent and politically astute figure - on his team. But his
worries go far deeper than this.

UKIP could well dent Mr Howard's chances at the forthcoming elections by
stealing support from traditional Tory voters.

Although Mr Howard has been hugely successful in forcing Tony Blair into a
humiliating U-turn on the European constitution, the Conservatives have fallen
short of advocating Britain's complete EU withdrawal.

The UKIP protest is targeted specifically at the EU, Brussels bureaucracy and
Europe's increasing interference in what UKIP supporters see as Britain's
internal affairs. And this is likely to appeal to a certain sort of grassroot
Tory voter.

Meanwhile, Labour officials are so nervous about UKIP that they have sent out a
number of Cabinet big guns to trash their rapid success story.

Home Secretary David Blunkett even attempted to link UKIP to the far-Right
extremist British National Party - a clear sign of how worried Labour are.

One thing is certain. When the dust settles after June 10, every political party
- mainstream or otherwise - will claim success.

But if UKIP's current performance is anything to go by, there will be only one
real winner: apathy.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              76 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 26, 2004

DAY & NIGHT; DAY & NIGHT

BYLINE: WITH KATHRYN SPENCER, JULIE CARPENTER AND KATE BOHDANOWICZ

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 85 words


AS Joan Collins pledged her support to the UK Independence Party yesterday, she
had another reason to celebrate. The veteran ex-Dynasty siren, who turned 71
earlier this week, has just become a grandmother for the third time. Baby Ava is
her first grandchild by her only son Sacha Newley and his wife Angela (Joan
already has a granddaughter Miel and grandson Wes by her elder daughter Tara).
"The birth lasted over 12 hours and Ava is very beautiful. The whole family is
delighted, " says a friend.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              77 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 26, 2004

Election blow to Labour and Tories: One in four may switch party in next month's
vote, poll shows

BYLINE: Alan Travis, Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words


Both Labour and the Tories are heading for poor results in the June 10 elections
with one in four of each party's voters thinking of switching to another party,
according to this month's Guardian/ICM opinion poll.

The survey indicates that the percentage turnout in the European elections is
likely to be little different from the low to mid-20s recorded at the last
European elections in 1999 - although it may be boosted by the unknown effects
of new postal voting schemes.

The poll also confirms the increasing appeal of the minor parties, with the
United Kingdom Independence party the most prominent with a two percentage point
share of the vote, followed by the Scottish Nationalists. The UKIP appears to be
drawing its support equally from former Labour, Tory and Liberal Democrat
voters.

The survey does, however, contain some good news for Tony Blair. It shows Labour
with a four-point lead over the Conservatives, in sharp contrast to recent polls
that triggered speculation over the future of his leadership.

Labour is down one point on 37%, compared with last month, the Tories are
unchanged on 33%, and the Liberal Democrats are down one point on 21%, with
"others" up to a 9% share of the vote.

The ICM poll also shows that while Mr Blair's personal popularity rating dipped
further last month, from minus 20 points to minus 24, he is still considered an
asset to the Labour party by an overwhelming 76% of Labour voters. Only 17% of
his party's supporters want to see him stand down before the next election and
48% want him to go on for another full term.

This suggests that Mr Blair may have come through the worst of the turbulence
this month over his leadership, although it appears to have further damaged his
standing among Conservative and Lib Dem voters. The 44% of voters who say he
should go before the next election are nearly all Tory and Lib Dem supporters.

There seems no doubt, though, that Mr Blair is facing a poor set of results on
June 10, which may only be offset by the lack of a breakthrough for the
Conservative party newly invigorated under Michael Howard's leadership.

Three weeks before the European elections, only 34% of voters told ICM that they
were "10 out of 10" certain to vote on June 10 and 21% said they were certain
not to vote. This compares with 40% who told ICM they were 10 out of 10 certain
to vote a week before the last European elections in 1999. The actual turnout
was only 23% of the electorate.

When those who said they were certain to vote were asked if they were going to
vote the same way as they would in a general election, only 73% of Labour voters
said they would. Nine per cent said they were going to vote for a different
party and 18% said they were unsure if they were going to vote Labour on June
10. This adds up to one in four of their voters unsure whether to back Labour or
make a protest vote.

The Conservative vote is similarly soft, with only 70% of those who say they
would vote for Mr Howard in a general election willing to back the Tories on
June 10. These figures are likely to spell disappointment for both Mr Blair and
Mr Howard.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,002 adults aged 18 and over by telephone
from May 20-23, 2004. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results weighted to the profile of all adults.

ICM details, page 10

Leader comment, page 23


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 26, 2004

G2: Celebrity politics doesn't get my vote

BYLINE: Ben Summerskill

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 954 words


I was 13 and she was 64 when Mrs Barbara Castle first showed me her panties.
That sort of thing leaves a mark on an adolescent. (It was, memorably for me,
one of the few occasions in my life when I have felt a batsqueak of desire for
an older woman.)

Castle had been seeking to demonstrate the high cost of buying clothes at Marks
& Spencer in Brussels, as opposed to her usual store in Manchester. The message
for the electors in 1975, if not for pubescent me, was that we were better
staying out of the common market.

The landscape of my youth was populated by politicians with personality. I can
remember more clearly who was in the cabinet a quarter of a century ago than I
can sometimes recall who sits around the oval table at Number 10 today - and I
was no political trainspotter as a child. But even backbenchers had gusto then,
their indiscretions helpfully informing the populus of our proper place.

I remember Sir Gerald Nabarro, the handlebar-moustached Tory, being convicted of
drunkenly driving the wrong way around a roundabout in his Daimler. Happily for
him, in the establishment morality play that was public life in those days, the
millionaire got off on appeal. (His company secretary helpfully went into the
witness box to attest that she was driving the car at the time. His private
secretary, now Mrs Christine Hamilton, stood tearfully behind him on the steps
of the court.)

Labour MP Maureen Colquhoun, on the other hand, lost her seat after falling out
furiously with a traffic warden in a car park in her Northampton constituency.
But she was also reported - horror of horrors - to have left her husband for a
woman at the time.

How times change. I have no more idea who the MP for Northampton is today than I
do whether Sir Gerald's employee was telling the truth. (Surely she was.)

As the UK Independence Party surprises even the best-informed pundits with an
opinion poll surge, its leaders hint that a key to their progress has been the
recruitment of Robert Kilroy-Silk.

"Kilroy" likes to remind us that he was once an MP, too. But that's not how we
know him now. He may have made headlines as a Daily Express columnist for
articulating views unsettling even to Richard Desmond. But it is almost two
decades of shoulder-tapping reassurance to lachrymose TV studio audiences that
has placed Kilroy firmly in what now passes for the pantheon of celebrity.

UKIP's views on the awfulness of Europeans, Brussels bureaucrats and bent
bananas haven't changed a jot in the past year. But its poll ratings have soared
since Kilroy-Silk's recruitment was announced. The party is being taken
seriously for the first time by its rivals. And as UKIP moves ahead of the
Liberal Democrats among those who declared an intention to vote, it was
announced yesterday that Joan Collins is to offer her ageless support, too.

We can't blame UKIP for this development. In desperately seeking celebrity
endorsement, the party is merely aping a path well-trodden by its rivals. I
still recall the awed excitement at the London Evening Standard when the "news"
arrived prior to the 1997 election campaign that Mick Hucknall's backing for New
Labour had been guaranteed.

Ross Kemp and Star Trek actor Patrick Stewart are promised as further voter
treats by the Labour party in this year's European election campaign. And Twiggy
- the model, not the education minister - is supporting the Greens.

(The potential risks of this obsession should be all too evident from Kenny
Everett's 1980s endorsement of the Tories. That was excruciating beyond measure,
not only because of Everett's unscripted jokes about nuclear war but because
here was a known, but closeted, homosexual jigging in celebration of a party
that was planning legislation intended to deem him a freak.)

Cerebral commentators note solemnly that we get the politics we deserve. If we
decline to engage with the big issues as a nation, we will find the political
agenda hijacked by artifice.

Of course the issues exercising politicians are more complex today than 20 years
ago. In the glory days of Thatcherism, the divisions were starker. And simpler.
Free market versus command economy. Democracy versus communism.

Is it surprising we don't engage today, the easy argument goes, if the big
battles are over funding formulae for the NHS, or the way we finance university
education, all requiring sophisticated appreciation of the detail of public
policy.

And yes, many of the MPs who make a difference at Westminster are still publicly
unheard-of, unsung bores of the committee corridor waiting to pounce upon
underbriefed ministers. But personality can still play a role in party politics.
The pivotal moment of John Redwood's 1995 bid to lead the Conservative party,
and the moment at which we all knew he would fail, was the opening of his first
excitable press conference at the Palace of Westminster. A coven of swivel-eyed
harpies appeared unforgettably alongside him defining their hero, without him
having opened his mouth, as one canape short of a state banquet.

Good politics is about public argument. I don't resent the deployment of
personality by politicians if it engages voters. But for all the whingeing that
Alastair Campbell was obsessed merely with message, or that Fleet Street
trivialises, it is politicians themselves who are failing to develop narratives
that engage.

Desperate recruitment of celebrities just serves to remind us that parties are
bereft not only of personality, but of politics too. Forget hunting and the
European constitution. I can tell the pollsters one thing with certainty.

I will vote for whoever bans celebrities from their campaign trail.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              79 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

JOAN COLLINS JOINS THE STAR-STUDDED CAST OF UKIP

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT The UKIP boasts Joan Collins
and Robert Kilroy-Silk as supporters Neil Plumb

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 805 words


JOAN COLLINS yesterday became the latest celebrity to back the UK Independence
Party, which is on course to make large gains in next month's local elections.

Ms Collins told a press conference at the Hilton Hotel in Nottingham that she
was "extremely flattered" to be invited to become a patron of the party.

Although she admitted she was not a political person and had not previously
voted in this country, she added: "I do feel that my country - I am English - is
losing a lot of what I grew up with. I feel we are eroding ourselves to
Brussels."

Ms Collins, the enduring star of the American soap opera Dynasty, is the latest
in a string of well-known figures to join the UKIP, including Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the former talk-show host who was fired by the BBC after branding
Arabs "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and women repressors". He is standing as
a candidate for the party in the European elections next month.

Sir Ranulph Fiennes, the intrepid explorer, has also agreed to be a UKIP patron
while the party counts among its backers Edward Fox, the distinguished actor,
Sir Patrick Moore, the astronomer, and Stirling Moss, the former racing driver.

High-profile publicity stunts, such as Ms Collins' endorsement of the
Eurosceptic party, have helped boost its ratings in the polls and have taken
mainstream politicians by surprise. Party organisers say there is more to come -
including a flotilla of fishing boats, luxury yachts and smaller vessels which
are due to sail up the Thames and converge at the Tower of London on 6 June, and
an appearance by Robin Page, erstwhile star of One Man and His Dog.

But if the party is maintaining momentum in an otherwise lacklustre European
election campaign, it is not entirely surprising.

UKIP's chief campaign organiser is Dick Morris, who was Bill Clinton's campaign
strategist while its publicity consultant is Max Clifford, the celebrity PR
guru.

While other parties appear to be stagnating in the polls, UKIP, which currently
has only three MEPs and no representative on the London Assembly, is making
substantial strides in the polls and, according to an internet YouGov poll, is
currently in third place, on 18 per cent, ahead of the Liberal Democrats.

Its rise in support has alarmed the mainstream parties, who fear the UKIP's
distinctive campaign - which includes an election broadcast featuring a
thigh-slapping Austrian wearing lederhosen being whacked in the face with a fish
by a man in a sou'wester - is capturing the public's imagination.

In 1999 the party's support in the European elections was confined mainly to the
South East and South West of England but there is now evidence of growing
popularity in the Midlands and the North.

The party believes a rise in support will allow it to gain at least 10 MEPs, as
well as its first representatives on the London Assembly and dozens more local
councillors.

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy has dismissed the party's rise in the
polls as a "blip" while the Conservatives claim that their Eurosceptic
credentials will not be effected by the UKIP's advance.

But the party, which supports immediate withdrawal from the EU, is not only
playing the Eurosceptic card. It is capitalising on widespread disaffection with
mainstream politics and issues such as asylum and council tax. The UKIP favours
turning back at the border all asylum seekers who have come to Britain via a
safe country.

But the UKIP added that some credit should be given to the Prime Minister for
its recent surge in popularity. "Tony Blair, in calling the European referendum,
made people wake up this whole issue of withdrawal from the EU," said a UKIP
spokesman. "Our general mood is very, very optimistic."

But then the party has reason to be hopeful about its election chances. It is
sitting on a pounds 2m war chest - thanks in part to generous backers such as
Paul Sykes, the Eurosceptic IT millionaire.

Johann Hari, page 31

MANIFESTO PLEDGES

European Union

Immediate withdrawal.

Asylum-seekers

Strengthen border controls and turn away asylum-seekers who have come to Britain
via a "safe" third country. Abolish detention centres and welcome genuine
asylum-seekers but throw out all failed applicants.

Local issues

Give people the chance to take part in local referenda on significant issues
such as local planning decisions.

Tax

Abolish VAT, council tax and uniform business rates and replace them with a
local sales tax.

Crime

To "do whatever is necessary to reduce crime and criminality to the levels of
the 1950s".

Defence

Use a portion of funds from withdrawal from the EU to "regenerate all three arms
of Britain's defence forces".

Healthcare

Reform the NHS to reduce central bureaucracy and allow more local control.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              80 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

BNP ARE LEGACY OF NAZIS, BLUNKETT SAYS

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT David Blunkett: The BNP uses
fear to stir up hatred'

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 423 words


DAVID BLUNKETT compared the British National Party to the Nazis yesterday as he
mounted a scathing attack on the "thugs" and "liars" of the extreme right.

Speaking before next month's council and European contests, the Home Secretary
said the BNP represented a "real worry" to the country.

The party is fielding a record 400 candidates in the elections and believes it
could be within sight of securing its first seats in the European Parliament and
London Assembly. Although opinion polls suggest it is being optimistic,
ministers have been alarmed by the prospect of it gaining a foothold in the
North-west and West Yorkshire.

Mr Blunkett said: "Those who use fear as a method of stirring up hatred and
conflict are deeply dangerous and they themselves in the case of the BNP are
thugs. All the evidence is very clear in terms of the criminality, the
candidates, the organisation behind them.

"So many people in the run-up to the D-Day commemorations have to be reminded
that we fought against the fascists. They are the legacy of those fascists,
Oswald Mosley here and the Nazis on the Continent."

In an interview with PA News, he said: "I think there's a genuine worry. That's
why I place so much emphasis on securing people's confidence in terms of
tackling crime, dealing with illegal entry into the country. Because only when
people feel we are on their side and that we can make a difference will they
listen to our arguments and respond to our reason in terms of the fact that the
BNP - and on asylum the UKIP - they are promising the impossible.

"That is that somehow you can stop people coming to our country and stop people
moving around the world. They are just lying. We can't do that."

Phil Edwards, a spokesman for the BNP, said: "I reckon Blunkett has got the wind
up. He is lashing out - he doesn't care what he says. But it won't wash."

He added: "We're not fascists. What is a fascist party? A fascist party has a
single unelected leader. Anyone who is a member of the BNP can be our leader ...
We have lots of members who are ex-servicemen who fought in the last war."

w A BNP local election candidate charged in connection with football violence
was banned yesterday from travelling abroad during Euro 2004. The restriction
was placed on Ian Clegg, 35, as a condition of his bail by magistrates in
Stoke-on-Trent. Mr Clegg, who is hoping to win a seat on the city council, is
accused of behaving in a threatening manner after Stoke City's match against
West Ham on 24 April.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              81 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

POLITICS: JOAN COLLINS JOINS THE STAR-STUDDED CAST OF UKIP PATRON

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF The UKIP boasts Joan Collins and Robert Kilroy-Silk as
supporters Neil Plumb

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 801 words


JOAN COLLINS yesterday became the latest celebrity to back the UK Independence
Party, which is on course to make large gains in next month's local elections.

Ms Collins told a press conference at the Hilton Hotel in Nottingham that she
was "extremely flattered" to be invited to become a patron of the party.

Although she admitted she was not a political person and had not previously
voted in this country, she added: "I do feel that my country - I am English - is
losing a lot of what I grew up with. I feel we are eroding ourselves to
Brussels."

Ms Collins, the enduring star of the American soap opera Dynasty, is the latest
in a string of well-known figures to join the UKIP, including Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the former talk-show host who was fired by the BBC after branding
Arabs "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and women repressors". He is standing as
a candidate for the party in the European elections next month.

Sir Ranulph Fiennes, the intrepid explorer, has also agreed to be a UKIP patron
while the party counts among its backers Edward Fox, the distinguished actor,
Sir Patrick Moore, the astronomer, and Stirling Moss, the former racing driver.

High-profile publicity stunts, such as Ms Collins' endorsement of the
Eurosceptic party, have helped boost its ratings in the polls and have taken
mainstream politicians by surprise. Party organisers say there is more to come -
including a flotilla of fishing boats, luxury yachts and smaller vessels which
are due to sail up the Thames and converge at the Tower of London on 6 June, and
an appearance by Robin Page, erstwhile star of One Man and His Dog.

But if the party is maintaining momentum in an otherwise lacklustre European
election campaign, it is not entirely surprising.

UKIP's chief campaign organiser is Dick Morris, who was Bill Clinton's campaign
strategist while its publicity consultant is Max Clifford, the celebrity PR
guru.

While other parties appear to be stagnating in the polls, UKIP, which currently
has only three MEPs and no representative on the London Assembly, is making
substantial strides in the polls and, according to an internet YouGov poll, is
currently in third place, on 18 per cent, ahead of the Liberal Democrats.

Its rise in support has alarmed the mainstream parties, who fear the UKIP's
distinctive campaign - which includes an election broadcast featuring a
thigh-slapping Austrian wearing lederhosen being whacked in the face with a fish
by a man in a sou'wester - is capturing the public's imagination.

In 1999 the party's support in the European elections was confined mainly to the
South East and South West of England but there is now evidence of growing
popularity in the Midlands and the North.

The party believes a rise in support will allow it to gain at least 10 MEPs, as
well as its first representatives on the London Assembly and dozens more local
councillors.

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy has dismissed the party's rise in the
polls as a "blip" while the Conservatives claim that their Eurosceptic
credentials will not be effected by the UKIP's advance.

But the party, which supports immediate withdrawal from the EU, is not only
playing the Eurosceptic card. It is capitalising on widespread disaffection with
mainstream politics and issues such as asylum and council tax. The UKIP favours
turning back at the border all asylum seekers who have come to Britain via a
safe country.

But the UKIP added that some credit should be given to the Prime Minister for
its recent surge in popularity. "Tony Blair, in calling the European referendum,
made people wake up this whole issue of withdrawal from the EU," said a UKIP
spokesman. "Our general mood is very, very optimistic."

But then the party has reason to be hopeful about its election chances. It is
sitting on a pounds 2m war chest - thanks in part to generous backers such as
Paul Sykes, the Eurosceptic IT millionaire.

MANIFESTO PLEDGES

European Union

Immediate withdrawal.

Asylum-seekers

Strengthen border controls and turn away asylum-seekers who have come to Britain
via a "safe" third country. Abolish detention centres and welcome genuine
asylum-seekers but throw out all failed applicants.

Local issues

Give people the chance to take part in local referenda on significant issues
such as local planning decisions.

Tax

Abolish VAT, council tax and uniform business rates and replace them with a
local sales tax.

Crime

To "do whatever is necessary to reduce crime and criminality to the levels of
the 1950s".

Defence

Use a portion of funds from withdrawal from the EU to "regenerate all three arms
of Britain's defence forces".

Healthcare

Reform the NHS to reduce central bureaucracy and allow more local control.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              82 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

POLITICS: BNP ARE LEGACY OF NAZIS, BLUNKETT SAYS

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS David Blunkett: The BNP uses fear to stir up hatred'

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 423 words


DAVID BLUNKETT compared the British National Party to the Nazis yesterday as he
mounted a scathing attack on the "thugs" and "liars" of the extreme right.

Speaking before next month's council and European contests, the Home Secretary
said the BNP represented a "real worry" to the country.

The party is fielding a record 400 candidates in the elections and believes it
could be within sight of securing its first seats in the European Parliament and
London Assembly. Although opinion polls suggest it is being optimistic,
ministers have been alarmed by the prospect of it gaining a foothold in the
North-west and West Yorkshire.

Mr Blunkett said: "Those who use fear as a method of stirring up hatred and
conflict are deeply dangerous and they themselves in the case of the BNP are
thugs. All the evidence is very clear in terms of the criminality, the
candidates, the organisation behind them.

"So many people in the run-up to the D-Day commemorations have to be reminded
that we fought against the fascists. They are the legacy of those fascists,
Oswald Mosley here and the Nazis on the Continent."

In an interview with PA News, he said: "I think there's a genuine worry. That's
why I place so much emphasis on securing people's confidence in terms of
tackling crime, dealing with illegal entry into the country. Because only when
people feel we are on their side and that we can make a difference will they
listen to our arguments and respond to our reason in terms of the fact that the
BNP - and on asylum the UKIP - they are promising the impossible.

"That is that somehow you can stop people coming to our country and stop people
moving around the world. They are just lying. We can't do that."

Phil Edwards, a spokesman for the BNP, said: "I reckon Blunkett has got the wind
up. He is lashing out - he doesn't care what he says. But it won't wash."

He added: "We're not fascists. What is a fascist party? A fascist party has a
single unelected leader. Anyone who is a member of the BNP can be our leader ...
We have lots of members who are ex-servicemen who fought in the last war."

w A BNP local election candidate charged in connection with football violence
was banned yesterday from travelling abroad during Euro 2004. The restriction
was placed on Ian Clegg, 35, as a condition of his bail by magistrates in
Stoke-on-Trent. Mr Clegg, who is hoping to win a seat on the city council, is
accused of behaving in a threatening manner after Stoke City's match against
West Ham on 24 April.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              83 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

DON'T BE FOOLED: THERE IS NOTHING HARMLESS ABOUT THE UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY;
 THEY BELIEVE IN DARK CONSPIRACIES AND CHARACTERISE ANYBODY WHO

BYLINE: JOHANN HARI

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1168 words


There are only two weeks to let the British people know the United Kingdom
Independence Party is not a harmless repository for their protest votes. UKIP is
now set to come third in the European elections - yet they have been almost
entirely unscrutinised by the British press, waved away as a band of harmless
single-issue amateurs. In fact, in many parts of Britain, a vote for UKIP is a
vote to be represented by paranoid far right wingers - but who knows it?

Let's look at some of the people you'll be voting for if you put a cross for
UKIP. The party is running on a manifesto co-authored by a man called Aidan
Rankin. He writes articles and letters for Third Way, a breakaway faction of the
National Front, and believes that races should not mix. To this end, members of
Third Way have made contact with black separatists and Orthodox Jews who believe
the world should be divided into segregated racial groups.

At the last general election, UKIP's list of candidates included - in the words
of Searchlight, the magazine which monitors and exposes the far right - "former
racists, anti-Semites and Holocaust deniers". The magazine claimed that UKIP's
parliamentary candidate for Dunfermline West just three years ago, Alastair
Harper, had been a leading figure in the neo-fascist Northern League founded by
eugenicist Roger Pearson. It also said that the party's candidate in
Beaconsfield, Andrew Moffat, was championed by the Holocaust denier David Irving
after he was discharged from the Coldstream Guards without explanation.

Searchlight even alleges that UKIP's current national chairman and one of its
leading candidates, Mike Nattrass, has been a member of the extreme right,
pro-Apartheid, pro-Rhodesia New Britain Party.

UKIP boasts that it now requires all candidates to declare they are not racists.
Yet they don't seem to try very hard to make sure these anti- racist
declarations are accurate: Private Eye recently provided a summary of the public
racism of UKIP's new star recruit, Robert Kilroy-Silk. "Pakistanis want to
generate hate ... but then what else can we expect from Pakistan?" he asks.
Iraqis are "not worth the life of one British soldier, not one. All they seem to
do is moan, incessantly, about their lack of amenities". He raves against "pushy
blacks" and "talentless Asians", and suggests that asylum- seekers should be
"herded together" by the paras and "dumped on a secure slow boat to ...
wherever".

Kilroy-Silk was very publicly sacked by the BBC for these views. UKIP seems not
to have noticed. Other forms of bigotry are equally welcomed: boxing promoter
Frank Maloney, their candidate for London mayor, has said he will not be
campaigning in Camden because there are "too many gays" there.

Similarly, UKIP's claim to reject xenophobia and seek friendly relations with
our European neighbours does not seem to match the evidence. Their website links
to a guide called "European Union myths and follies", which cites Winston
Churchill, speaking in 1918. "Once the apparatus of power is in the hands of The
Brotherhood, all opposition, all contrary opinion must be extinguished by death
... You may have to fight when there is no hope of victory, because it is better
to perish than to live as slaves." Churchill was talking about the Bolsheviks
(and supported the idea of European Union) - but what's a few gulags when you're
panic-mongering?

The site then leaps directly from mis-describing the EU to the second verse of
our national anthem, which, they complain, has been suppressed by fiendish
political correctness. "Oh Lord God arise/ Scatter her enemies/ And make them
fall/ Confound their politics ... Oh, save us all!" It seems fair to point out
that there is some contradiction between UKIP's public desire to seek a friendly
relationship with our trading partners, and this plea for God Almighty to smite
them.

UKIP's links section - the people they choose to identify as political allies
and friends - is an interesting guide to the party's world view. A typical site
belongs to Credence Publications, whose top book is Ten Minutes to Midnight by
Phillip Day. It details "the coming takeover of Britain by the axis powers of
France and Germany ...  and the raw and terrible facts of what treason carried
out in British politics has cost our once great nation". Their other links are
just as appealing. They point their members towards Northern Ireland's UK
Unionist Party (a fringe group not to be confused with the Ulster Unionist
Party), which denounces the peace process as "a disgrace".

Many of the symptoms of far right politics are on display among UKIP and its
friends: a paranoid hatred of metropolitan political classes, a belief in dark
conspiracies operating in the shadows, and the characterisation of anybody who
disagrees with their extreme position as "treacherous" and "disloyal".

Indeed, UKIP routinely denounces Edward Heath, John Major and Tony Blair - who,
whatever you think of them, have dedicated their lives to serving Britain - as
"traitors". But beneath the layers of bigotry, it is important to note the
appeal of UKIP's arguments. Large numbers of British people - more than 40 per
cent in some polls - want to withdraw from the EU. Many are decent people
tempted by the UKIP argument that after withdrawing from the EU, we could still
engage in full trade with our European partners. It seems like we could
cherry-pick the best of the EU - access to European markets - without the
political entanglements of belonging to the Union itself. The Withdrawal Brigade
points to Switzerland and Norway as models of a post-EU future. These two
countries trade with the EU without having to adhere to its rules, UKIP boasts.

There's only one problem with this neat vision: it isn't true. Many of my
relatives live in Switzerland, and it is a simple fact that Swiss people have to
follow the vast majority of EU regulations. If almost all your products are sold
within the EU, then you have to meet EU rules at almost every step of the
production and distribution of goods.

After withdrawal, Britain would still, in practice, be bound by EU regulations.
The only difference would be we would have absolutely no say in formulating
those regulations. They would be made without us. Britain wouldn't even be
shouting from the sidelines, as we so often are today. Our government would be
outside the stadium, yelling in an empty street. They could more accurately be
named the UK Isolation Party.

Nobody has an excuse to vote UKIP in the European elections. If your priority is
to kick Europe in the teeth, vote Tory: they are extremely hostile to the EU and
have obsessive Europhobes like Bill Cash on their front bench. If you want to
kick Tony Blair and the political class in the teeth over Iraq, vote Liberal
Democrat or Green. If you insist on voting UKIP, you won't be striking a blow
against Europe or Blair. You'll be casting a vote for paranoid bigotry.

j.hari@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              84 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

POLITICS: UKIP SPROUTS AS CELEBRITIES MAKE A STAND ON BRUSSELS

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT The UKIP boasts Joan Collins
and Robert Kilroy-Silk as supporters Neil Plumb

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 807 words


JOAN COLLINS yesterday became the latest celebrity to back the UK Independence
Party, which is on course to make large gains in next month's local elections.

Ms Collins told a press conference at the Hilton Hotel in Nottingham that she
was "extremely flattered" to be invited to become a patron of the Eurosceptic
party.

Although she admitted she was not a political person and had not previously
voted in this country, she added: "I do feel that my country - I am English - is
losing a lot of what I grew up with. I feel we are eroding ourselves to
Brussels."

Ms Collins, the enduring star of the American soap opera Dynasty, is the latest
in a string of well-known figures to join the UKIP, including Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the former talk-show host who left the BBC after branding Arabs
"suicide bombers, limb-amputators and women repressors". He is a candidate for
the party in the European elections next month.

Sir Ranulph Fiennes, the explorer, has also agreed to be a UKIP patron, while
the party counts among its backers Edward Fox, the actor, Sir Patrick Moore, the
astronomer, and Stirling Moss, the former racing driver.

High-profile publicity stunts, such as Ms Collins' endorsement of the party,
have helped to boost its ratings in the polls and have taken mainstream
politicians by surprise. Party organisers say there is more to come - including
a flotilla of fishing boats, luxury yachts and smaller vessels which are due to
sail up the Thames and converge at the Tower of London on 6 June, and an
appearance by Robin Page, erstwhile star of One Man and His Dog.

But if the party is maintaining momentum in an otherwise lacklustre European
election campaign, it is not entirely surprising. UKIP's chief campaign
organiser is Dick Morris, who was Bill Clinton's campaign strategist, while its
publicity consultant is Max Clifford, the public relations guru.

While other parties appear to be stagnating in the polls, UKIP, which currently
has only three MEPs and no representative on the London Assembly, is making
substantial strides in the polls and, according to an internet YouGov poll, is
currently in third place, on 18 per cent, ahead of the Liberal Democrats.

Its rise in support has alarmed the mainstream parties, who fear the UKIP's
distinctive campaign - which includes an election broadcast featuring a
thigh-slapping Austrian wearing lederhosen being whacked in the face with a fish
by a man in a sou'wester - is capturing the public's imagination.

In 1999 the party's support in the European elections was confined mainly to the
South-east and South-west of England, but there is evidence of growing
popularity in the Midlands and the North.

The party believes that a rise in support will allow it to gain at least 10
MEPs, as well as its first representatives on the London Assembly and dozens
more local councillors.

Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, has dismissed the party's rise in
the polls as a "blip", while the Conservatives claim that their Eurosceptic
credentials will not be affected by the UKIP's advance.

But the party, which supports immediate withdrawal from the European Union, is
not only playing the Eurosceptic card. It is capitalising on widespread
disaffection with mainstream politics and issues such as asylum and council tax.
The UKIP favours turning back at the border all asylum- seekers who have come to
Britain via a safe country.

But the UKIP added that some credit should be given to the Prime Minister for
its recent surge in popularity. "Tony Blair, in calling the European referendum,
made people wake up this whole issue of withdrawal from the EU," said a UKIP
spokesman. "Our general mood is very, very optimistic."

But then the party has reason to be hopeful about its election chances. It is
sitting on a pounds 2m war chest - thanks in part to generous backers such as
Paul Sykes, the Eurosceptic information technology millionaire.

Johann Hari, page 31

MANIFESTO PLEDGES

European Union

Immediate withdrawal.

Asylum-seekers

Strengthen border controls and turn away asylum-seekers who have come to Britain
via a "safe" third country. Abolish detention centres and welcome genuine
asylum-seekers but throw out all failed applicants.

Local issues

Give people the chance to take part in local referendums on significant issues
such as local planning decisions.

Tax

Abolish VAT, council tax and uniform business rates and replace them with a
local sales tax.

Crime

To "do whatever is necessary to reduce crime and criminality to the levels of
the 1950s".

Defence

Use a portion of funds from withdrawal from the EU to "regenerate all three arms
of Britain's defence forces".

Health care

Reform the NHS to reduce central bureaucracy and allow more local control.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              85 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

JOAN FIGHTS EU

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 20 words


JOAN Collins joined the anti-Europe UK Independence Party yesterday but
admitted: "I'm not a political person."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              86 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

EU ARE AN OAP

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 22 words


JOAN Collins, 71, joined the anti-Europe UK Independence Party yesterday, paying
a pensioner's half-price rate of pounds 10.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              87 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 26, 2004

TEBBIT IN POLL ALERT

LENGTH: 92 words


TORY hardman Norman Tebbit last night ordered Michael Howard to promise sweeping
tax cuts -or lose true blue voters.

He warned the Conservative leader that the party will haemorrhage votes to the
UK Independence Party unless it swings to the right.

He called for Pounds 25billion of tax cuts and said: "Mr Howard may offend some
voters but that's the price for enthusing far more.

"His task is to enthuse Tory voters to turn out, rather than to anaesthetise
them into acquiescence of a bland, centrist, politically correct agenda."


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              88 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

Joan Collins embraces Kilroy's campaign for independence

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow Political Correspondent

SECTION: Features; 10

LENGTH: 421 words


JOAN COLLINS is both glittering and long-lived. Her political career is neither,
having begun yesterday at a hotel in Nottingham when she announced that she had
become patron of the right-wing UK Independence Party (UKIP).

The occasion was marked by a photo call in which she embraced her old friend
Robert Kilroy-Silk, that other evergreen marvel of the small screen, who
announced this month that he was standing to become an MEP for the party in the
European elections.

Ms Collins's endorsement marks another boost for the minority party, which has
benefited from more than £2 million in campaign funds from millionaire donors.

She lost her usual assurance, however, when asked to give a maiden political
address. What did she think of UKIP's policy of withdrawal from the European
Union? "I am not a political person," said Ms Collins, 71, who has admitted that
she has not voted before because she was "never in England at voting time". She
did read a short statement, explaining that she was flattered to be asked for
help by Mr Kilroy-Silk, although she did not always agree with him. "I spend
much of my time in America, but Britain is my country and I feel we are losing a
lot of what I grew up with," she said. "It is sad so much is being eroded to
Brussels."

She then swept out of the room to star in the matinee at the Theatre Royal,
Nottingham, in which she plays a French novelist.

Mr Kilroy-Silk was left to expound on Ms Collins's political philosophy, drawing
heavily on her reputation as a femme fatale. Ms Collins is on her fifth husband,
and is also famous for playing predatory women in the soap opera Dynasty and
films such as The Stud. "It is no surprise that, as an independent woman, she
wants to live in a country that is also independent," he said.

His analysis was not as reductive as it sounds, as it is Ms Collins's glamourous
lifestyle that has led to her political calling. She has written two overtly
political articles, one last summer in which she illustrated the dangers of the
euro by saying that it increased the cost of running her house in St Tropez.
This month she wrote a second piece, which caught Mr Kilroy-Silk's eye, in which
she said that her opposition to the EU had its roots in her romance with the
actor Warren Beatty. Her studio had insisted that they could not live together
without getting married, and "we solved the problem by breaking up".

"So you will understand that I am not in favour of a one-size-fits-all society,"
she said.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            May 26, 2004, Wednesday

Putting faces and policies to MEPS

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 588 words


From Mr Philip Smith

Sir, On April 15 I sent an e-mail to all of my 11 MEPs. "I assume you'll be
wanting my vote this June," I said. "What have you been up to in the past four
years?"

With less than three weeks to go until polling I have heard from just five.

One said: "I am not especially concerned about how you vote." Another responded:
"We have split the region up internally, between the five Tory MEPs. I have to
pass your letter on." I have yet to hear anything further. Only three, Caroline
Lucas (Green), Chris Huhne (Lib Dem) and James Elles (C), responded with details
of their work.

I have received no election material nor had any door canvassers calling.

If the sitting MEPs are so arrogant that they assume their party tag and
position on the list will ensure their re-election, then it is little wonder
turnout is likely to be so low.

And I'm a Europhile -I'm on their side!

Regards, PHILIP SMITH, 1 Bartons Lane, Old Basing, Hampshire RG24 8AN.

May 24.

From Mr Christopher Apps

Sir, I have recently received a poll card informing me where to vote for
candidates who may seek to represent the South East Region in the European
Parliament.

Prior to reorganisation and proportional representation Sir Jack Stewart-Clark
represented some 500,000 in the East Sussex constituency. He was not only known
but diligent. He regularly addressed meetings throughout the constituency,
explaining the Eeropean Community and its various functions and he gave prompt
and personal attention to those who sought his help.

Since the advent in 1999 of the South East Region constituency and proportional
representation I do not know, nor do many others, despite inquiries, those who
are representing us as our MEPs. No doubt they will shortly seek my further
support, in vain.

Parliamentary representatives who are unidentifiable and do not communicate
command neither respect nor support and defeat the basic principles of
parliamentary democracy.

With the enlargement of the EU and the predicted reduction of UK members in the
European Parliament, will this get worse?

Yours faithfully, CHRISTOPHER APPS, The Old Granary, High Street, Barcombe
Cross, nr Lewes, East Sussex BN8 5DH.

May 24.

From Mr Ben Jones

Sir, I disagree with Rosemary Righter (Comment, May 20; see also letter, May 21)
that people have "no way of knowing whom they are electing" to the European
Parliament. Several MEPs, including regular correspondents to this page, are
standing again at the top of party lists. Their political records are as open
and transparent as those of their Westminster counterparts.

I cannot see why new candidates would be any less comprehensible than those
standing for Westminster. Manifestos are freely available for inspection on the
relevant party websites. They appear to me no less coherent or worthy of the
name than those produced for Westminster elections.

Though the party list system is far from perfect, it is certainly no more a
"parody of democracy" than the wildly unrepresentative allocation of Westminster
seats. What chance would the UK Independence Party or the Greens have at
Westminster elections, despite their significant electoral support?

As for "North Korean methods" in selecting European Commission top officials,
would Ms Righter happily endorse EU-wide elections for the post? Given her
cynicism towards directly elected MEPs, it seems unlikely.

Yours faithfully, BEN JONES, 12a Rue Wayenberg, Brussels 1050.

May 22.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 25, 2004

Anti-EU party races ahead of the Lib Dems

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES; JANE MERRICK

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 734 words


THE party that wants to pull Britain out of the EU is enjoying a dramatic poll
surge in the run-up to next month's European elections.

The UK Independence Party has pushed the Lib Dems into fourth place and is on
course to quadruple to 12 its number of seats in the European Parliament.

Some of its success can be attributed to the enormous publicity generated by
signing up celebrities.

Last month it recruited Robert Kilroy Silk and, at a stroke, found itself with
the only Euro-election candidate who is a household name. Then last night it was
revealed that Joan Collins had joined the party.

The actress will announce her membership at a photocall with the axed talk-show
host today.

The YouGov poll for the Daily Telegraph showed that of those voters 'very
likely' to vote in the June 10 election, 31 per cent back the Tories, 23 per
cent Labour, 18 per cent UKIP, and 15 per cent the Lib Dems.

This measure is seen by election observers as a reliable indicator of voter
intentions. With low turnout expected in the June 10 poll, those who say they
actually intend to vote are at a premium. When all voters are considered,
regardless of their likelihood of turning out, the Conservatives are still
ahead, on 28 per cent, but Labour are on 27 per cent.

The Lib Dems are then in third place with 18 per cent and UKIP is fourth with 14
per cent.

UKIP's leader, former Tory Minister Roger Knapman, said that the poll showed how
voters are turning against the EU. 'For the first time most people want us to
get out of the European Union and renegotiate a common market, which is what we
wanted in the first place,' he said.

A result pushing the Lib Dems into fourth place would be an enormous
psychological breakthrough for UKIP. All three mainstream parties are viewing
UKIP's advance with alarm.

It could, however, be the Tories who face the greatest problems because UKIP's
message chimes with the views of so many Conservative supporters.

Yesterday the Trade Secretary Patricia Hewitt back-peddled from her claim that a
'No' vote on the EU constitution expected next year would mean Britain pulling
out of Europe.

She was forced to retreat from her incendiary remark that the key question on
the EU blueprint was 'in or out'.

Instead, the Minister said the issue was about 'having a say in the rules' of
the EU.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram said: 'Patricia Hewitt spoke without
thinking last Thursday to create a scare story about our position.'

Taxpayers have been hit with the equivalent of a six per cent rise in income tax
while Labour has been in power, the Tories claimed last night.

In their latest election broadcast for the June 10 poll, the Conservatives said
a total of 66 stealth tax rises under Tony Blair had cost hardworking families
millions.

Comment Page 12

Simple message wins over voters

THE UK Independence Party's dramatic emergence as a force to be reckoned with in
next month's European elections should come as no surprise to the mainstream
parties.

Well-funded, focused, and energetic, they have been running rings around the
'big three' in a European election campaign that stubbornly refuses to catch
fire.

Their simple message withdrawing Britain from the EU has a powerful resonance
with voters who are bitterly opposed to the federalist ambitions of the Brussels
elite.

UKIP was founded in September 1993, and grew out of the Anti-Federalist League,
a pressure group set up to run candidates opposed to the Maastricht-Treaty in
the 1992 General Election.

It put up a respectable showing in the 1994 European elections, fielding
candidates in just over a quarter of the 87 seats and attracting 157,000 votes.

The breakthrough came in the 1999 Euro-elections when they won three seats in
the European Parliament thanks to proportional representation.

The PR list system used gives minority party candidates a much better chance of
breaking through than under the Westminster 'first past the post' system.

The UKIP is now convinced it can build on that number on June 10. In addition to
a powerful and simple message, it has cash and glamour on its side.

Yorkshire millionaire Paul Sykes is helping to bankroll the party which has a
Pounds 2million war-chest for the elections. It also pulled off a coup earlier
this month by signing up Robert Kilroy Silk.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              91 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 25, 2004

Bush, Blair and another gamble

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 595 words


A WEDDING party slaughtered by mistake a crude assault on one of the country's
holiest mosques two British securitymen killed yet more evidence of bestial
treatment by American prison guards an inexorable rise in casualties.

What a grim backdrop to the belated attempt by George Bush and Tony Blair to
regain the political initiative in Iraq.

There is much, in principle, that makes sense in their latest UN resolution,
including a timetable for handing over sovereignty and holding elections.

Equally, it is inevitable that the allied troops will be under the effective
control of an American general and operate under their own national laws it is
the troops' behaviour that matters, not the jurisdiction which holds them to
account.

But, the reality is that President Bush's political and military misjudgments
make it almost impossible for this or almost any other plan to work.

America, followed supinely by Britain, invaded Iraq on the naive assumption that
it would be greeted as a liberator and so had no post-war strategy beyond
relying on a group of ineffectual and out-of-touch exiles. Is it any surprise
then, that Iraq's factions are squabbling over cabinet positions in the interim
government?

More pertinently, through a mixture of bungling and ill-discipline, the
Americans allowed themselves to be seen as brutal occupiers.

Far from being a victory in the war against terrorism, the removal of Saddam
Hussein, one of the few Arab leaders to deal effectively with Al Qaeda, has
opened Iraq to every extremist group and handed real power to hardline religious
fanatics.

At one stage a United Nations force might have been welcomed and still offers
the best solution. But, today, such is the visceral hatred of outsiders that it
too is seen as the enemy.

One thing is certain. An election timetable alone will not bring stability.

Mr Blair should be telling his friend Mr Bush that, if Iraq is not to slide ever
deeper into the mire, America must accept that peace cannot be imposed by brute
force.

Cry of despair

IT speaks volumes about the British people's fury with the European policies of
the political establishment that support for the UK Independence Party is at
record levels.

It could, a poll suggests, force the Liberals into fourth place in next month's
European Parliamentary elections.

This is a howl of impotent rage from an electorate fed up with a Labour
government that gives in to every demand from Brussels; not to mention a Prime
Minister who performed a spectacularly cynical U-turn on a referendum for the
proposed EU constitution.

The voters are also angry with a federalistdriven European Commission that
interferes in matters that are none of its business look at the plan to force
our police to introduce random breath tests.

The tragedy is that this frustration is showing in support for a party whose
main policy total withdrawal from the EU is certainly not in Britain's
interests.

Shouldn't the Tories be putting the case much more robustly that this country's
interests are best served by a European Union where markets, not sovereignty,
are shared.

Then the voters would find a real voice for their cry of despair.

Shattered peace

PICTURE the scene. A mountaineer, exhausted but triumphant, finally reaches the
peak of Mount Everest. He looks at the spectacular view, relishing the silence.

Then the peace is broken by that most annoying of noises the incessant buzz of a
microlight plane passing overhead.

Is there no escape?

END

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              92 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 25, 2004

Beware of the real danger of this Euro-lie

BYLINE: STEPHEN GLOVER

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1120 words


THE UK Independence Party favours withdrawal from the EU. It is used to being
treated as a bit of a joke - a collection of oddballs, xenophobes and even
racists.

Nonetheless, at the last European elections four years ago, UKIP managed to win
seven per cent of the vote and three seats.

The party will probably do even better in the European elections on June 10.

Although the number of seats being contested in the United Kingdom has fallen
from 87 to 78 because of enlargement, UKIP is forecasting that it may win as
many as ten seats. This does not appear to be an idle boast.

According to a YouGov poll in the Daily Telegraph, UKIP is ahead of the LibDems
among the 39 per cent of respondents who say they are 'very likely' to vote. On
this basis, the Tories are on 31 points, Labour is on 23 points, UKIP is on 18
points and the Europhile LibDems are on 15 points.

It is true that when all voters are considered, irrespective of the likelihood
of their turning out, UKIP fares less well at 14 per cent. But the turnout on
June 10 is bound to be low (if not perhaps as low as it was four years ago, when
it was 24 per cent) and UKIP is able to mobilise its supporters better than the
other parties. Factor in the effect of proportional representation, which
favours smaller parties, and there may well be ten UKIP MEPs - or even more.

What will this tell us? Some mainstream politicians may try to write off a UKIP
success by emphasising the small turnout.

The trouble with this argument is that it devalues the achievement of all
parties, whose MEPs will have been elected by the same minority of people who
can be bothered to vote.

Other politicians will claim that UKIP will have benefited from running the
former daytime television star, Robert Kilroy-Silk, as one of its candidates.

Others will simply say it is a single-issue party and this issue - withdrawal
from the EU - is unrealistic to the point of battiness. Others still may claim
that UKIP is so xenophobic as to be racist.

BUT WHATEVER these politicians may say in public, they will surely take UKIP
seriously in private. In the end, you can't argue with ten or more MEPs. Just as
the recent successes of Jean-Marie Le Pen's far-Right party in France have
jolted the French political establishment, so the triumph of UKIP should serve
as a wakeup call to the mainstream British parties.

There is much to criticise about UKIP. It is, in effect, a single-issue party.
Although its policies are not racist, it may attract some racist voters. It has
been relying rather too much for my tastes on the black arts of the publicist
Max Clifford, as well as of Dick Morris, Bill Clinton's former pollster. The
party does have more than its fair share of oddballs and a sprinkling of
lunatics.

Yet, despite all these deficiencies, UKIP has a powerful message which
increasingly finds favour with a large section of the British electorate that
instinctively shies away from any form of extremism. Many people know that the
EU is a profoundly undemocratic organisation in which unelected bureaucrats in
Brussels (so it is estimated) make more than half of our laws.

They know that, from the moment of our accession in 1973 to what was then called
the Common Market, successive governments, including the Tories, have concealed
from the British people the gradual, and seemingly inexorable, process of
integration. The EU has evolved, without the British people ever being
consulted, from a supposedly loose trading organisation into a semi-federal
institution with its own anthem, flag and fledgling army. Soon, if a new
constitution is agreed, the EU will have a common foreign policy, its own
president and an increasingly harmonised tax system.

Under the guise of establishing a single market, bureaucrats in Brussels
continue to impose their centralising agenda on nation states. The most recent
example is the warning by the European Commission that it will force Britain,
against the wishes of its government, to accept random breath tests for
motorists. If the Government does not comply, the Commission will simply issue a
directive. Could anyone imagine a more a blatant repudiation of democracy?

The British people increasingly understand what the political establishment has
never admitted - that, notwithstanding the pretence that we are governed from
Westminster, in many spheres we are, in fact, ruled from Brussels by largely
unaccountable bureaucrats whose names are not even known to us.

And yet this Government, and the even more fanatically Europhile Liberal
Democrats, persist in the lie that integration is a nightmare invoked by deluded
Eurosceptics whereas the truth is that it is already a reality in many areas and
will become so in many more when - or if - the new European Constitution is
adopted. Newspapers that dare to draw attention to this creeping integration are
accused of tasteless scaremongering.

WONDER UKIP is making such headway. So many lies have been told, so many passes
sold, that voters are being driven into the arms of a party which advocates
leaving the EU altogether. These people do not accept the Tory vision of a
looser EU in which member states can choose the degree of integration they want.
Nor do they buy the Labour-LibDem line that federalism is a fantasy dreamt up by
the Eurosceptic press.

Withdrawal from the EU would not be in Britain's interests.

UKIP cites Norway and Switzerland, both of which thrive outside the Union.

But these small countries have established a close commercial and trading
relationship with the EU which might not be available to Britain if it walked
away from membership. UKIP is asking the people of this country to throw
themselves blindfolded into the unknown.

We would be mad to do so. But the mainstream parties must take note of the
increasing number of people who are prepared to contemplate voting for such a
reckless policy. They have been driven to it by 30 years of disinformation.

The latest lie, uttered last week by Patricia Hewitt, the Trade Secretary, is
that a 'No' vote in the promised referendum on the new European Constitution
will amount to a vote in favour of withdrawal. It won't.

There are three choices on Europe: continuing along the present path towards
something which will, at the very least, approximate to federalism; remaining in
the EU but, along with some other countries, keeping off the federalist
bandwagon; and leaving altogether.

Let's have an honest debate.

The more this Government attempts to bamboozle the British people into a federal
Europe, the more alluring will be the call of the siren voices urging us to
leave it altogether.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              93 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 25, 2004

The families were treated like potential terrorism material

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 691 words


NEUROSIS prevails here at Westminster after last week's powder condom attack on
Tony Blair.

Yesterday the Government made a statement about the series of deaths at Deepcut
barracks, Surrey.

The grieving families were forced to watch proceedings from behind the chamber's
smoked-glass security screen.

If we learned anything from last week's powder attack it was that the
recently-installed, Pounds 1.5million glass was ineffective (as well as being an
affront to democratic principle and architectural aesthetics).

Yet these poor parents, who had come to their parliament for some sort of
explanation, were treated like humdrum, run-of the-wheel, potential terrorism
material.

The families touched the cornersof their eyes and listened closely. They were
too dignified to express any dismay they felt but it seemed clumsy and wrong to
make them sit there.

Can we really not trust anyone anymore?

If bereaved parents cannot be expected to resist chucking rotten eggs at a
junior minister, is there any sense continuing with open parliamentary debate?

Why don't we just give up and let MI5 turn the Palace of Westminster-into a
bunker for the political elite?

The minister, Adam Ingram, spoke his lines reasonably well. 'It weighs heavily
with me as to why we are here today,' he said.

Felicitously put.

Gerald Howarth, for the Conservatives, also found a sorrowful tone.

Neither frontbencher, however, said anything that would upset the Establishment.
It is hard to feel entirely comfortable when opposing frontbenches strike so
similar a note.

The one time the Tories bridled was when Mr Ingram said that something called
the Adult Learning Inspectorate would be investigating future arrangements at
Army training camps.

I may be proved wrong but that sounds like an impeccably right-on outfit.

What will be its understanding of your average Sergeant Major's attitude towards
recruits and their career development?

Earlier in the Commons, we were subjected to the frontbench debut of Boris
Johnson, shadow arts minister.

Little of what he said was of as much note as the fact that, possibly for the
first time this year, he had combed his hair. Les Dawson as a choirboy.

He was almost unrecognisable.

In the same session a knuckledragger called Mann (Lab, Bassetlaw) grunted
violently nonsensical things about football. He demanded that when soccer clubs
are sold a slice of the equity should, by law, be sold to 'the supporters'.

Why? When other businesses are sold, do the vendors have to sell some of the
property to their customers?

The most foolish guff is uttered by politicians when they nudge anywhere near
the game of football.

Labour politicians, in particular, have yet to understand that modern soccer is
greedier and more corrupt than almost any other form of free enterprise.

Yet they still think footie is wonderful.

The Sports minister, Richard Caborn, said that 'it is very, very important for
our communities to have good governance of football'.

Why two 'verys'? A more honest minister would have said that, short of changing
corporate ownership laws, there was nothing he could do.

FINALLY, a ship-to-shore communication reaches me from the J-Anne, a 29ft stern
trawler which was yesterday afternoon to be found bobbing up and down on the
waters outside Littlehampton, West Sussex.

The J- Anne's skipper is Mick Mahon, a magnificent Capt Haddock figure who
belongs to the UK Independence Party and is sailing to London to publicise his
fury at European fishing rules.

Trawlerman Mahon, roaring down a radio from his fo'c'sle, reports that when he
floated into Cowes the other day he was given much encouragement by four French
yachts.

They took one look at his EU flag (with a big red cross through it) and yanked
hard on their whistle strings to toot their approval.

The J-Anne is scheduled to sail up the Thames and park near Tower Bridge on June
6.

By that time hairy Cap'n Mick will be smelling as bad as one of those nets full
of dead mackerel which Brussels likes our fishermen to chuck back into the sea.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              94 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 25, 2004, Tuesday

Howard will lose voters to the UKIP unless he toughens up Norman Tebbit argues
that the Tory party leader has been too concerned not to cause offence

BYLINE: by Norman Tebbit

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1064 words

Michael Howard has transformed the Conservative Party since becoming its leader.
The vicious infighting and destructive press briefings from Central Office have
ceased. Policy disputes, especially over Europe, are scarcely heard. The
fashionable trend among Tories is beating Labour - not each other. The party's
finances, its public image and poll ratings are improving. Mr Howard is seen as
a dangerous opponent by Labour and by voters as an experienced man, capable of
managing his own party and running a competent government.

This has not come free. Mr Howard has paid a price for the welcome reticence of
the Europhile fringe and the new spirit at Central Office. The former party
chief executive has been eased out of Smith Square - but into a winnable seat in
Thanet. European election candidates have been strong-armed into affiliation to
the federalist European People's Party and, as a poll in this newspaper showed
yesterday, significant numbers of disaffected Tories are now tempted to vote for
the UK Independence Party. While Conservative disunity over policy has
diminished, it has been at the cost of diminishing policy, too.

Having been traduced as a divisive Right-winger, Mr Howard naturally wants to
pacify the disputatious Tory grandees, apparatchiks and dining clubs, to
demonstrate his ability to manage a very fractious Tory party. But there are
risks in pacification, as opposed to unification through common purpose and
policy.

Mr Howard may have fallen for the spin put on voting statistics by Left-leaning
pollsters claiming that middle-of-the-road Tories switched to Labour because
John Major was an extreme Right-winger. Had they done so, Tony Blair's 1997 vote
would not have been half a million less than Gaitksell's when he lost the 1951
election.

Big Tory and Labour defeats and victories come about when one party's supporters
stay at home and the others go out to vote. Of late, it seems to have been
voters on both Labour's and the Tories' Right who have put their parties in or
out of office. If so, Mr Howard's task is to enthuse Tory voters to turn out,
rather than to anaesthetise them into acquiescence of a bland, centrist,
politically correct agenda. That needs not just a statement of Conservative
aspirations, but the Conservative policies to attain them.

Conservatives believe individuals should decide for themselves what is best for
them and accept responsibility for their actions. No Conservative should talk of
the government "empowering" individuals. It is voters who empower the
government.

The building blocks of society are private families, not public officials, and
the more of their own money that families - not public officials - control, the
stronger they and society will be. So tax cuts are vital and Mr Howard's pledge
to reduce state spending from 42 per cent to 40 per cent of GDP is welcome, but
not enough.

The economy is likely to grow at a long-term rate of 2.5 per cent a year and
maintaining spending at 42 per cent of GDP would increase the total amount spent
by the government by over 10 per cent in real terms. Cutting to 40 per cent of
GDP would still allow total spending to rise by nine per cent, or pounds 40
billion in real terms. Since 1997, public spending has risen by more than 40 per
cent. Who can believe that hospitals, schools, pensions or the Armed Forces are
40 per cent better or stronger?

Administration costs of government are 50 per cent higher than when Mr Blair
walked into Number 10. Very little of the billions poured into health has
filtered down to the wards and operating theatres. Nor has much got down to
classrooms, where dispirited, under-performing, underpaid teachers struggle to
report back endlessly to the hordes of officials soaking up money intended for
teaching. Surely it is possible to return at least a quarter of Gordon Brown's
extra pounds 100 billion a year in taxation.

With an eye on the grey vote - growing in numbers and more likely to vote than
the esoteric minorities courted by the Tories in recent years - Mr Howard could
axe taxes on pensions and savings income below, say, pounds 50,000 a year for
the over-80s and progressively down to the 65s, and raise the threshold of
inheritance tax to pounds 1 million in his first Budget.

For most businesses, deregulation would be more welcome than tax cuts. Town
halls are stuffed with officials either regulating or themselves being
regulated, and deregulation would help limit council tax increases. So, too,
would lifting the statutory obligations of councils to be social engineers.
Obscure lobby groups such as Patagonian Women Against Sexual Mutilation might
have to fund themselves, but taxpayers would be better off.

Reforming education with a voucher system and giving all schools
grant-maintained status would put power in the hands of teachers and parents,
allowing the virtual abolition of local education authorities and much of the
ministry, too. Real independent foundation status for hospitals and funding
through GPs and patients could slice away the Health Department structure.

The polls show that voters believe they pay too much tax. They believe they get
better value for money spending it themselves than when politicians and
officials spend it for them. They are natural Tory tax-cutters, instinctively
favouring the Tory theme of "smaller government, bigger people".

Of course, cutting taxes will lose the votes of some who live on our taxes - but
not of productive public sector workers, nurses, doctors, teachers or the
police, who would benefit from structural reform and deregulation. Deregulation
will require the arch-regulators in Brussels to admit that we are sufficiently
grown-up to decide for ourselves how much regulation we need. If that leads to a
punch-up between our elected Parliament and our unelected foreign masters, so be
it - the Tories would be on the side of the British people and soaring support
for UKIP shows Brussels is less loved even than Mr Blair.

It is now time for Mr Howard to lead with confidence. He may offend some voters,
but that is the price for enthusing far more. Disenchanted Tories will not leave
their armchairs to fight under a pale beige flag. In the words of St Paul: "If
the trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself for the battle?"

Lord Tebbit was Conservative Party chairman, 1985-87

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              95 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 25, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP stirs mainstream

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 106 words

SIR - The rapid rise of the UKIP will indeed spread panic among the big three
(report, May 24). Tony Blair will contemplate the impact upon the coming EU
constitution referendum, Michael Howard may regret his U-turn on Iain Duncan
Smith's decision to cut links with the federalist European Peoples
Party-European Democrats, and Charles Kennedy is faced with the prospect of his
avidly pro-EU party being pushed into fourth place.

Will the panic stop there, though? Many of the BBC's executives may wish Kilroy
was back presenting his chat show instead of, a real possibility, being returned
as a UKIP MEP.

Nigel Draper

Potton, Beds

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              96 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 25, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP stirs mainstream

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 46 words

SIR - For the first time, I shall be voting UKIP on June 10. Whatever the
outcome, I shall know that my vote will not make me complicit in the varying
degrees of sell-out to Brussels contained in the policies of the three
mainstream parties.

David Saunders

Sidmouth, Devon

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              97 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 25, 2004, Tuesday

Will Kilroy catch the gravy train?

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 21

LENGTH: 161 words

Yesterday's poll suggesting sweeping gains for the UK Independence Party in
June's European elections is particularly good news for Robert Kilroy-Silk. As
the UKIP's lead candidate in the East Midlands, the Tango-tinted former
television presenter now looks set to be elected as an MEP.

If nothing else, this would bring a welcome boost to RKS's bank balance. After
he was sacked by the BBC in January - losing a reported pounds 600,000 salary in
the process - Spy hears that Kilroy-Silk made strenuous efforts to keep himself
in the style to which he was accustomed.

"Robert was making himself available for interviews to anyone who would have
him," I'm told.

"Sadly, he didn't get as far as he might have done, as he was still demanding a
substantial sum for his own time, as well as a fee for the use of his
chauffeur."

Televison companies might have been squeamish about such expenses, but surely
the European Parliament will be able to stump up.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              98 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 25, 2004

BOOST FOR MR WHO

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 141 words


HANDS up those who can name the leader of the UK Independence Party.

And, no, it isn't Robert Kilroy-Silk.

The leader is the obscure Roger Knapman, a one-time Tory MP.

Amazingly, a poll says Mr Knapman stands to gain 18 per cent of the vote at next
month's Euro elections.

That's three per cent more than the Lib-Dems are tipped to get.

The UKIP are hard to take seriously.

They've only one policy, Britain's withdrawal from the EU.

Their candidate for London Mayor is the eccentric boxing promoter Frank Maloney
.

He says he won't campaign in the Camden borough because it's full of gays.

So how come the UKIP's fortunes are rising?

It's surely because voters want to protest at Tony Blair's open-door immigration
policy and his somersaults over the EU constitution.

He has put the UKIP on the map.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              99 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 25, 2004

POLL FEAR FOR BLAIR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 84 words


by MACER HALL Political Editor TONY Blair fears the UK Independence Party is
heading for big gains in the Euro elections.

The anti-EU party - led by Roger Knapman and backed by ex-TV host Robert
Kilroy-Silk - could get 18% of the vote and kick the Lib Dems into fourth place.

Some 66% of voters won't even vote on June 30, a YouGov poll found.

That may ruin the PM's plan for a referendum.

But Trade Secretary Patricia Hewitt said the EU should not be seen as a
"political monster".

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              100 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 25, 2004

KILROY'S NEW PARTY TO ROCK THE LIB-DEMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words


POLITICIANS from the main parties are set for a major shock after a poll showed
voters are flocking to the United Kingdom Independence Party.

The party - which wants the UK to withdraw from the European Union - is ahead of
the Liberal Democrats in the poll for the forthcoming local and European
elections.

The YouGov survey of those most likely to vote in the election found UKIP on 18
points compared with the Lib Dems' 15 points.

The UKIP was given a major boost after Sunday Express columnist Robert
Kilroy-Silk agreed to stand as a candidate.

Last night it emerged that veteran actress Joan Collins, a former Tory
supporter, is to lend her support to his election bid.

The shock poll result is particularly worrying for Liberal Democrat leader
Charles Kennedy who has faced a barrage of speculation about his health and
political future.

But Liberal Democrat chief executive Lord Rennard yesterday insisted: "The
increase in UKIP support in today's poll is entirely at the expense of the
Labour and Tories ."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              101 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 25, 2004

Collins joins Kilroy in UKIP's battle for Britain

BYLINE: Michael White: Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 583 words


The UK Independence party will add glamour to its campaign for the June 10
elections when it announces that the timeless celebrity Joan Collins has become
a supporter.

The expected announcement comes as UKIP enjoys a boost from an internet YouGov
poll which showed it in third place - with 18%, ahead of the Lib Dems on 15% -
among people "very likely" to vote.

It plans to raise its profile still further as it struggles to establish itself
as Britain's fourth party, to the Eurosceptic right of the Tories.

"If we get a big no vote on June 10, Blair will not sign the European
constitution in Brussels on June 18," one UKIP MEP predicted yesterday.

The party has already benefited in the campaign from more predictable
endorsements - the actor Edward Fox, Sir Patrick Moore and the former motor
racing cham pion Stirling Moss -as well as the candidacy of the former Labour MP
and daytime TV star Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's celebrity and combative media skills have made waves and
created some internal tensions involving those who fear becoming "the
Kilroy-Silk party". However, he has helped draw in a certain kind of voter;
"Sierra Man whose Sierra is 14 years old," as one insider puts it.

The party had three MEPs elected in 1999. The unveiling of Ms Collins, the
Dynasty star who recently admitted to not voting, comes at a time when the party
is spending an unprecedented £2m to tap into voter discontent.

The Greens and Respect, George Galloway's anti-war coalition, are trawling for
Labour defectors on the left - as are the Lib Dems - and the British National
party is another uncertain force on the far right.

The prominent UKIP MEP Nigel Farage says he believes the other small party to
watch in 2004 is the Greens. "The BNP doesn't exist," he claims.

UKIP claims to be touching a public nerve beyond its traditionally strong base
in the south of England. Though he insists that UKIP has moved beyond being a
party dedicated to the single issue of taking Britain out of Europe, Mr Farage
says this is the issue of the moment. "We don't believe this campaign should be
a referendum on Iraq, or about schools or hospitals," he says.

UKIP is trying to break away from years of internal squabbles over ideology,
funding and the purity of its membership lists, where there has been movement
between it and the BNP in several well-publicised cases.

Some UKIP chiefs, notably its leader, Roger Knapman, a government MP and whip
under John Major, are former Tories. Others, including Jeffrey Titford MEP, are
former members of the anti-immigration New Britain party. But one sympathiser
insists: "If they were racist, I'd be off."

Most of its £2m comes from small donors among its 20,000 members, but two large
donors stand out - Alan Bown, a retired bookie who has given over £200,000 in
the past year, and Paul Sykes, the IT millionaire who was a thorn in John
Major's side over Europe.

Some UKIP activists are mainly concerned to influence the Tories. But Mr Farage
says a majority have their sights on becoming a proper party in the Thatcherite
mould.

Like most small party insurgencies, it may all be hot air. But UKIP is trying
hard. On June 6 effigies of Tony Blair, John Major and Edward Heath will be
paraded outside Traitor's Gate at the Tower of London. "My job is to make sure
the effigies aren't hanged," says the party's press officer, Mark Croucher. "It
would be bad PR."

guardian.co.uk/politics/ otherparties


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 25, 2004, Tuesday

POLITICS: UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY SET FOR BIG GAINS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 487 words


LABOUR, THE Conservatives and Liberal Democrats turned their guns on the United
Kingdom Independence Party yesterday amid fears that the party stands to make
big gains at the European Parliament elections on 10 June.

Labour fears disillusioned working-class voters may switch to the UKIP, while
the Tories worry that part of their "core vote" may be tempted by the UKIP's
policy of withdrawing from the European Union.

Alarm bells rang after a YouGov survey for The Daily Telegraph yesterday put the
Tories on 28 per cent, Labour on 27 per cent, the Liberal Democrats on 18 per
cent and the UKIP on 14 per cent. Among the 39 per cent of people who are "very
likely" to vote next month, the UKIP is in third place (18 per cent) above the
Liberal Democrats (15 per cent) and trailing the Tories (31 per cent) and Labour
(23 per cent).

The UKIP, which currently has three MEPs, is running a well-funded campaign and
its profile has been enhanced by the decision of the former broadcaster and
Labour MP Robert Kilroy-Silk to run under its banner in the East Midlands.
Officials in all three main parties fear it will benefit from a "protest" vote
against mainstream parties next month, when elections also take place for local
authorities and the London Mayor.

Michael Howard, the Tory leader, will remind the voters of his Eurosceptical
credentials in the run-up to "Super Thursday" and last night the Tories used a
party election broadcast to attack "waste" both by Brussels and the British
Government. A Tory spokesman insisted: "There is no evidence that our vote is
shifting to the UKIP. We have a very strong message about live and let live' in
Europe. We are the party which can provide a strong voice for Britain in
Europe."

Tory strategists believe Labour may have boosted the UKIP's prospects by
presenting the referendum on the EU constitution promised by Mr Blair as, in
effect, a vote on Britain's continued EU membership. "This has played into the
UKIP's hands," said one Tory source.

Patricia Hewitt, the Trade and Industry Secretary said: "I think the more people
think about the implications of the UKIP policy, which is withdrawal, and the
implications of Conservative policy, which would leave us on the sidelines, the
more they will decide that Britain's place is at the heart of Europe.

"Most of us think in our personal lives that Europe is wonderful - cheap
holidays, the ability to travel wherever we want in the EU, to work and study
and retire there. Yet somehow the EU itself, which has given us all these
benefits, has been turned into some kind of political monster," she said.

Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrats' leader, dismissed the UKIP's poll
advance as a "blip" but said: "There is a degree of Euroscepticism out there,
unfortunately. I think that has been allowed to ferment because this Government
has failed lamentably to give a lead on the matter."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              103 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 25, 2004, Tuesday

JOAN JOINS ANTI EURO PARTY;
 EXCLUSIVE THAT WILL GO DOWN WELL WITH HER NEIGHBOURS IN FRANCE..

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN AND BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 164 words


JOAN Collins will today be unveiled as the latest celebrity to join the
political party that wants Britain to quit the EU.

The 70-year-old Dynasty star, who spends much of the year at her villa at St
Tropez on the French Riviera, is expected to take part in high-profile
appearances for the UK Independence Party to boost its chances in next month's
European elections.

Last night a UKIP spokesman said: "We will have an exciting event tomorrow.
People feel very strongly about Europe and the creeping federalism."

Earlier this month axed TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk joined UKIP. The party
has three MEPs.

Meanwhile a report yesterday from the Britain in Europe Group claimed growing
links between the UKIP and the British National Party.

But UKIP leader Roger Knapman denied any links with the far-right body. He said:
"We abhor racism. If anybody joins us they have to sign a declaration saying
they support our position. If they lie, we expel them."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              104 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 25, 2004

JOAN WILL BATTLE EU

LENGTH: 90 words


ACTRESS Joan Collins has joined the UK Independence Party and will today back
their Euro candidate -sacked BBC host Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Joan, 71, has said she is "violently" against the proposed constitution.

UKIP will attract 18 per cent of the vote -three more than the Lib Dems in the
Euro elections says a YouGov poll.

Meanwhile, Tony Blair WILL surrender sovereignty in the EU constitution, it has
been claimed.

Dutch Foreign Minister Bernard Bot said: "Britain will eventually give up a
number of red lines."


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              105 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 25, 2004

OPINION

BYLINE: Richard Littlejohn

LENGTH: 165 words


IT used to be that if you wanted to register a protest vote, you voted Liberal.

Not any more. In the upcoming European elections, the United Kingdom
Independence Party is running third, pushing the Lib Dems into fourth place.

I'm surprised UKIP isn't doing better than that, since polls consistently show
anywhere between 33 and 45 per cent of us want to get out of the EU altogether.

None of the major parties is offering that option, sadly.

Most of us would go along with the Tories and settle for a return to the old
free-trade area, which is what we were told we were getting in the first place.

But that ain't gonna happen. And Michael Howard knows it.

It might be the Liberals pushed into fourth place this time. But that's not the
whole story. In 1997 it was the Referendum Party which cost the Conservative
Party seats at the General Election.

And unless some kind of deal can be done with UKIP, it will be the Tories who
will suffer in the long run.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              106 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 25, 2004, Tuesday

Tories seek answers in poll tax

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 883 words


Senior party figures believe that it could make council funding fairer. Rosemary
Bennett reports

ELEMENTS of the widely hated poll tax may be revived by the Conservatives in
their local government policy review in an effort to ease the council tax burden
on pensioners.

Caroline Spelman, Shadow Local Government Secretary, said in an interview with
The Times that restoring features of the community charge would be one way to
overcome some of the worst injustices of the council tax and help the elderly.

Mrs Spelman, who became the second woman to join Michael Howard's Shadow Cabinet
when she was promoted to the post in March, is playing a prominent role in the
Tories' local election campaign. The only thing that she has ruled out as she
starts examining reforms to the council tax is a local income tax, which she
believes is unworkable and vulnerable to fraud.

Asked if that meant that some of the principles of the poll tax would be
considered for inclusion in the plans, she said: "We will look at that. Fairness
is an issue that needs to be addressed and it is one of the principles we will
apply to whatever the Government comes up with."

Pensioners and other families on fixed incomes have been worst-hit by recent
double-digit increases in the council tax, which is based on the value of a
property. The poll tax was based on the number of people living in a household,
so it benefited single and pensioner couples who lived in expensive houses but
had only modest incomes.

Mrs Spelman, 46, a softly spoken mother of three children, is tipped for rapid
promotion under Mr Howard. She is a former agricultural adviser from rural Essex
who was educated in a grammar school and her supporters believe that she has
exactly the sort of moderate, down-to-earth approach to politics that will help
the party to reconnect with the voters they lost in 1997.

The Tories have no intention of coming up with firm proposals on council tax
during this campaign, but will wait until the Government publishes its reforms
in July. Mrs Spelman's early thinking, however, chimes with that of other senior
party figures, who believe that property values should remain the basis for
calculating council charges, but the formula could also reflect the numbers
living there.

Early indications from ministers suggest that the Government will stick with a
property-based tax, but introduce new measures to boost the uptake of means
tested benefit for poorer households.

Mrs Spelman believes that this will do little to help pensioners and shows that
the Government is out of touch with older people. "Nobody is under any illusion
that there is a problem with uptake of council tax rebate, but part of the
reason is the whole lack of dignity associated with applying for it," she said.

"The Government does not really understand how difficult means-tested benefits
are for older people. If I think of the pensioner generation like my parents,
they would not have dreamt of going to ask for what they would see as charity.
They paid their contributions all their lives and were led to believe they would
be cared for in their later lives. Means-tested benefits are counter-intuitive
to their whole outlook on life."

Any move to revive the poll tax would be pounced on by Labour as evidence that
Mr Howard is an unreformed Thatcherite, wedded to failed policies from the
1990s.

Mrs Spelman believes, however, that the policy review should be broad and
open-minded.

Her ideas on council tax are still at an early stage, but she has fleshed out
plans to slash the powers of the Audit Commission and minimise the inspection
regime that governs local authorities. "Councils are being inspected to death,"
she said. "The army of inspectors that descends on local authorities is costing
them a fortune. One council I visited last week told me they have the equivalent
of 25 full-time posts devoted to just filling in the forms for the inspectors
and providing them the information to keep them happy. The whole thing costs £1
billion a year."

A Conservative government would set minimum standards that the regulators would
enforce. Residents would then be invited to assess their town hall's performance
when the bills are sent out. If the Government were to throw its weight behind
this sort of customer-led rating system, local councils would have to do it
properly and listen to the views of their customers.

"Of course people can vote out councils they don't like, but that is a pretty
blunt instrument," Mrs Spelman said. "In a modern society we expect customers to
have a better relationship than that with service providers."

She is touring the country, spreading the Tories' local election message:
"Better services and lower taxes." The party's next election broadcast, to be
screened tonight, focuses on government waste, which the Tories say runs to £20
billion.

The focus of the campaign shifted yesterday, however, to the UK Independence
Party (UKIP), which, a poll suggested, could beat the Liberal Democrats into
fourth place by taking support from the Conservatives and Labour.

Senior Tories blamed Labour for the party's strong showing, saying that making
the EU an "in or out" issue had driven voters into the arms of the UKIP.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              107 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 24, 2004

Anti-EU party pushes the LibDems into fourth place

BYLINE: TIM HALL

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 301 words


THE UK Independence Party has made up huge ground on the main political parties,
according to an opinion poll today.

The party, which is in favour of British withdrawal from the EU, could beat the
Liberal Democrats into fourth place in next month's European elections.

The UKIP is expected to win its largest share of the vote in the elections
thanks to growing distrust of the EU among the general public.

The party has also seen its profile boosted in recent weeks with the
announcement that former Labour MP and talkshow host Robert Kilroy-Silk is to
stand as a candidate.

The opinion poll found that a growing number of people plan to vote for the UKIP
possibly giving it more seats than the LibDems in what would be a severe blow to
party leader Charles Kennedy.

Such a result would shock the political establishment, which has dismissed those
who push for withdrawal from the EU as extremists.

In total, the UKIP could win 12 seats in the elections on June 10, according to
the YouGov poll for the Daily Telegraph.

It illustrates that voters are increasingly concerned about growing bureacracy
from Brussels and would prefer Britain to opt out. The survey asked the voting
intentions of those who are 'very likely to vote,' which is considered one of
the most reliable measures.

The Conservatives are ahead on 31 points, followed by Labour on 23 points and
then the UKIP on 18 points, up from only seven points in 1999.

The LibDems are trailing on an embarrassing 15 points.

UKIP leader Roger Knapman, a former Tory MP, said the poll result showed how
people are turning against the EU.

He said: 'For the first time most people want us to get out of the European
Union and renegotiate a common market which is what we wanted in the first
place.'

END

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              108 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 24, 2004, Monday

Surge by UKIP hits big parties Lib Dems running fourth in Euro campaign, says
poll

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 688 words

VOTERS in next month's European elections could shock the political
establishment by giving the United Kingdom Independence Party more seats than
the Liberal Democrats, a poll suggests today.

A YouGov survey for The Daily Telegraph indicates that UKIP, which is committed
to British withdrawal from the European Union, is ahead of the Lib Dems among
those who are "very likely" to vote.

According to this measure, which can be more reliable, particularly when turnout
is low, the Conservatives are on 31 points, Labour 23 points, UKIP 18 points and
the Lib Dems 15 points.

UKIP could win more than a dozen seats if these figures are repeated in the
combined European, local and London mayoral and assembly elections on June 10.

Such a result, relegating the Lib Dems to fourth place, would be a humiliation
for their leader, Charles Kennedy, and would send shockwaves through
Westminster, where the three main parties support EU membership and often
dismiss those arguing for withdrawal as extremists.

When all voters are considered, regardless of their likelihood of turning out,
the Conservatives are still ahead, on 28 points, with Labour just behind on 27.
The Lib Dems are on 18 points and UKIP is in fourth place on 14 points.

The YouGov survey shows that voters differentiate between European and local
elections. In the latter, UKIP's poll standing is in single figures.

Many of those questioned would also vote differently in a general election, with
36 per cent choosing the Conservatives, 33 Labour, 19 Lib Dem and only four per
cent UKIP. Roger Knapman, the former Tory MP for Stroud who leads UKIP, welcomed
the poll, which he said demonstrated the way the public was turning against the
EU.

"For the first time most people want us to get out of the European Union and
renegotiate a common market, which is what we wanted in the first place," said
Mr Knapman, who was a whip in John Major's administration.

Although UKIP won three seats in the 1999 European elections, with seven per
cent of the vote, the main parties have largely treated it as an irrelevance.

That would change drastically if it was to overhaul the Lib Dems.

All three parties would come under pressure to reconsider their positions on
Europe, and Tony Blair might have to rethink his chances of winning the
referendum he has promised on the proposed EU constitution.

But last night Lord Rennard, the Lib Dems' main election strategist, played down
the significance of the findings.

He said that, even if his party was to receive just 15 per cent of the vote,
that would still put it ahead of its result in 1999, when its share of the vote
was 12.7 per cent.

"That suggests that any rise in support for UKIP has come from the Conservative
Party and the Labour Party," he added.

Yesterday, in an interview broadcast before the YouGov figures were available,
Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, was asked if the Tories would be
damaged if UKIP reached double figures.

"I don't know. I don't know how many votes they're going to get, I don't know
where their votes are going to come from," Mr Howard told BBC1's Breakfast with
Frost.

"What I'm clear [about] is that our vision for the future of Europe is the right
vision, a vision in which we are there, taking part, arguing our corner, but
also arguing for a more flexible Europe."

Commenting on the Telegraph poll, a Labour official said: "Even if it is right
that the Tories are on 31 points, then that's a lead of eight points.

"That's exactly the same lead they had five years ago. It shows they've made no
progress at all."

The Tories won the 1999 European elections convincingly, partly because the
turnout was only 24 per cent. Labour supporters were disproportionately likely
to stay at home.

This year turnout is likely to be higher, helped by all-postal voting in some
regions and because other elections are being held on the same day.

But the YouGov poll suggests that percentage turnout is still only likely to be
in the 30s, which is why the "very likely to vote" polling figures could turn
out to be more reliable than the "all voter" ones.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              109 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 24, 2004, Monday

Why the rapid rise of UKIP will spread alarm among big three

BYLINE: by Anthony King

SECTION: News; Election countdown: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 1360 words

JUST AS the Greens caused a sensation in the European Parliament elections 15
years ago by finishing a strong third behind Labour and the Conservatives, so
the United Kingdom Independence Party looks set to cause a similar sensation in
a fortnight's time.

The only difference is that, whereas the Greens in 1989 failed to win any seats
in the Strasbourg Parliament under the old first-past-the-post electoral system,
UKIP under proportional representation now could easily gain a dozen seats or
more.

Success on that scale would propel UKIP into the centre of national political
debate. It would also dent the Conservatives' European prospects because UKIP
takes its support disproportionately from among people who are normally Tory
supporters.

That said, YouGov's survey for The Daily Telegraph suggests that UKIP's appeal
is almost entirely focused on Europe. There are no signs of UKIP making a major
breakthrough at the local or national levels. There are also no signs of the
British National Party making major advances on any level, though it will
probably pick up a scattering of council seats in its strong areas.

YouGov estimates that the percentage turnout in the local and Euro elections
this year will be in the mid 30s, conceivably in the high 30s. When seats in the
European Parliament were last contested in 1999, turnout in Britain - 24 per
cent - was the lowest anywhere in the EU.

However, the Government's decision to hold this year's Euro elections and the
annual round of local elections on the same day will almost certainly raise
turnout to more normal local-election levels. The holding of all-postal ballot
elections in four English regions should also raise the number of people casting
their votes.

YouGov asked respondents across the country how they would vote - if they voted
- in the Euro elections, in any local elections held in their area on June 10,
and at a UK general election if one were held soon.

The results, set out in the section of the chart headed "Voting intentions",
show that large numbers of voters clearly differentiate between the three types
of election and also that the level of turnout in the Euro elections will be
crucial.

Among all eligible electors, the Conservatives and Labour are neck and neck in
the Euro elections, with the Liberal Democrats a comfortable third and UKIP
fourth. However, among the 39 per cent of YouGov's sample who say they are "very
likely" to vote in the Euro elections next month, the picture changes
drastically.

The Conservatives, whose supporters are most likely to turn out, forge ahead.
Labour, whose voters are least likely to turn out under present circumstances,
falls back. The Liberal Democrats also lose support and UKIP moves up from
fourth place to third.

On that basis, the Conservatives would "win" the election while actually, under
PR, winning less than a third of the seats - a lower proportion than they hold
now. Labour would lose the election on any basis, winning less than a fifth of
the seats - also a lower proportion than it holds now. The Liberal Democrats
would win roughly one seat in seven - yet again a smaller proportion than they
hold now.

The real winners, in the sense of the party making the largest gains (possibly
the only gains), would be UKIP. Among the 87-strong British delegation to the
European Parliament, UKIP currently holds only three seats. Even though
Britain's delegation to Strasbourg has been reduced from 87 to 78, it looks as
though when the ballots are counted on June 13 it could find itself with between
eight and a dozen seats, possibly more. Most of this UKIP vote is undoubtedly a
"protest" vote but one that is not nearly as diffuse as past protest votes have
usually been.

The UKIP protest is targeted specifically at the EU, the Brussels bureaucracy
and Europe's increasing interference in what UKIP supporters see as Britain's
internal affairs. YouGov's findings show clearly that a majority of people in
Britain are not desperately interested in Europe and do not know a great deal
about the European Union but are adamant - at least for the time being - that so
far as the UK is concerned the great European project should be, if not
reversed, then at least halted in its tracks.

Those who intend to vote UKIP next month feel more strongly about these matters
than most Britons and would go further than most in distancing this country from
the EU. Nevertheless, there can be no doubt that the views of UKIP supporters on
Europe broadly represent majority opinion in this country.

The figures in the chart reveal both people's lack of interest in Europe and
their ignorance of it but also most Britons' generalised antipathy towards many
of its current manifestations.

As the figures show, only 13 per cent of YouGov's respondents are "very
interested" in the European Parliament elections, a mere three per cent feel
they know "a great deal" about the Parliament's powers and responsibilities, and
a majority confess that, if they bother to vote at all in the elections on June
10, they will vote mainly not to influence the composition of the European
Parliament but to express their views about the political scene in Britain.

As regards their knowledge of broader European affairs, a large majority of
Britons are in a state of ignorance that may or may not be blissful but is
apparently unembarrassed. Fully 58 per cent of YouGov's respondents admit they
have no idea who presides over the European Commission, only 23 per cent can
correctly name Romano Prodi, and the rest guess wrong (including five per cent
for Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and three per cent for the French
president, Jacques Chirac).

Even though the last European Parliament elections were also held under PR, only
31 per cent of YouGov's respondents realise that if they vote on June 10 they
will be voting for a regional party list rather than their local MEP. Among
those most likely to vote, the proportion rises to just 41 per cent.

As for a proposed new European constitution, only 21 per cent say they would
vote in favour of such a constitution if a referendum were held now and two
thirds of British voters - as the figures in the chart make plain - are opposed
to Britain's surrendering its veto in fields such as defence, social security,
taxation and the courts and criminal justice. The Government's "red lines", in
most voters' view, must not be crossed.

This year's local elections will almost certainly mark a contrast with the
Euros, with the local results conforming to a more familiar pattern.

YouGov's findings suggest that the Conservatives will come in ahead of Labour,
making substantial gains in both seats and councils, and that the Liberal
Democrats - always strongest in local elections - will more or less hold their
own.

Interest and a sense of involvement in the local elections are at a considerably
higher level than in the Euros.

Whereas only 27 per cent of voters reckon they know "a great deal" or "a fair
amount" about the European Parliament's powers and responsibilities, double that
proportion, 54 per cent, claim the same levels of knowledge about the powers and
responsibilities of their local council.

An even larger number, 60 per cent, think those powers and responsibilities are
substantial.

Similarly, whereas only 28 per cent of YouGov's respondents say that, if they
vote in the Euro elections they will be voting "mainly to influence the
composition of the European Parliament", the proportion among those saying that,
if they vote locally, they will vote "mainly to influence the way their local
council is run" rises to 54 per cent.

Predictably, sharp rises in council tax top the list of issues that people say
will determine how they vote, if they vote, in local elections on June 10.

The low quality of local services and the failures of the Blair Government are
some way behind.

YouGov elicited the views of 1,928 adults across Great Britain online on May 20
and 21. The data have been weighted to conform to the demographic profile of
British adults as a whole.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              110 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 24, 2004, Monday

Apathy rules, but Europe's 'talking shop' now wields huge power

BYLINE: by Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: News; Election countdown: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 859 words

THE citizens of the European Union cannot vote for the president of the European
Commission or the Council of Ministers, the twin bodies at the apex of the
governing system in Brussels.

For the 349 million voters in the newly-enlarged EU of 25 states, the world's
second biggest electorate after India, the only way to register approval or
dissent for EU actions is by choosing an MEP for the European Parliament next
month.

This is widely assumed to be a largely futile gesture, hence polling data
suggesting the lowest turnout ever recorded in the traditional EU states.

But if the European Parliament is still saddled with its 1980s image as polyglot
talking-shop, it has in reality been amassing raw power by leaps and bounds
since the creation of the single market in 1986. The treaties of Maastricht
(1992), Amsterdam (1997), and Nice (2000), each gave MEPs fresh powers to amend
and veto laws - known as "co-decision".

Jens-Peter Bonde, a Danish MEP and one the last surviving veterans from the
first wave of 1979, said he had watched as the national parliaments were reduced
by stages to idle spectators. "Look inside your fridge: the content of almost
everything there is decided by Brussels not Westminster," he said.

Those powers will double again if the European constitution is agreed in its
current form by EU leaders next month.

The Parliament will gain a full say for the first time over the EU's pounds 70
billion budget, the Common Agricultural Policy, the Common Fisheries Policy, and
regional aid. More subtly, the text makes inroads into justice, foreign policy,
and defence - now largely off limits - as the EU traditional "three pillars"
collapse into a single "community" or federal structure. Andrew Duff, a Liberal
Democrat MEP on the drafting body, said Euro-MPs were the great winners from the
constitutional upheaval. "We're now on the threshold of a dramatic breakthrough.
Nobody is going to be asking what the European Parliament is for in five years."

As a barometer of where real clout lies, one need only watch the legion of
well-paid lobbyists besieging Dr Caroline Jackson, a Tory MEP for the South-West
region and chair of the Environment, Consumer Protection, and Public Health
Committee

They have learned from hard experience that she can make or break entire
industries with a timely word or a tweak of legislation. Unknown in Britain, the
softly-spoken philosophy PhD is arguably the most powerful woman in Tory
politics today, living proof of how ultimate power has drained from Westminster
to the EU over the past decade.

Her committee is a law-making factory responsible for 80 per cent of all the
consumer and environmental legislation coming into force in Britain, from waste
packaging, to the disposal of old fridges and cars, to rules on advertising
cigarettes.

The phalanx of well-disciplined German MEPs run the Parliament's day-to-day
affairs, while the "no-show" French and Italians are fragmented, neglecting the
nuts and bolts in favour of gesture politics and party plotting.

The British lie between the two. They can punch above their weight, when they
bother to engage, holding the ideological balance in the key committees. They
can and do counter the Continental bias towards dirigiste control and
over-regulation, tilting consensus to a more globalist, free-market approach.

British economic interests suffered one of their worst defeats in recent years
in 2001 when a handful of British MEPs forgot to vote for the Takeover
Directive, a law smashing investment barriers that had the fervent backing of
the CBI. It failed by two votes.

By contrast, it was the British contingent that steered through the Investment
Services Directive this year, recruiting enough allies to safeguard the City of
London's role as Europe's premier financial centre. The British are likely to
find new allies among the MEPs from central Europe and the Baltics, as the
political balance tilts yet further towards the free market. "These people don't
want Europe interfering more in every nook and cranny; it's a whole different
set of reflexes," said an EU diplomat.

Over time, the newcomers may prove even tougher than the British in fighting
abuse by the EU institutions. Two major Polish parties defied the EU elites this
month to vote for a censure motion against the European Commission over the
disappearance of more than pounds 3 million into illegal slush funds at the EU's
data office Eurostat. The commissioner responsible, Spain's Pedro Solbes, has
refused to take any blame for what the Commission admits were "widespread and
grave abuses", saying he was kept in the dark. He is now Spain's finance
minister.

The only British party to uphold the principle of political responsibility was
the UK Independence Party. Seven British Tories broke ranks to support the
censure, including Chris Heaton-Harris, who resigned his post as chief whip to
protest the party line.

Whatever their "zero-tolerance" rhetoric at home, Labour, the Tories, and the
Liberal Democrats all voted to sweep the affair under the rug, closing ranks
with their fellow MEPs for the sake of European comity.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              111 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 24, 2004, Monday

PR voting gives minority parties realistic chance of winning seats The others

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; Election countdown: Pg. 07

LENGTH: 519 words

MINORITY parties relish the European elections because the voting system used
gives them a real chance of winning seats.

Until five years ago the United Kingdom Independence Party, which is in favour
of Britain's withdrawal from the European Union, was dismissed as a group of
amateur non-entities. Then Labour changed the voting system for the European
elections, and, under proportional representation, UKIP won three seats with
seven per cent of the national vote.

The Greens, another party that has never made a breakthrough in Westminster
elections held under first-past-the-post, also benefited. They sent two MEPs to
Brussels.

Sitting in the European Parliament has helped both parties professionalise their
work and increase their profile and this year they are both hoping to do better.

UKIP's greatest coup has been to secure the support of Robert Kilroy-Silk, the
former Labour MP and television presenter who is the party's lead candidate in
the East Midlands.

He is the only household name standing for the party - possibly, apart from
Labour's Glenys Kinnock and Martin Bell, the only household name in the whole
European election - and his candidature has made it much easier for the party to
publicise its efforts.

UKIP wants to campaign on behalf of ordinary voters against the supposed
pro-Europeanism of the "Westminster elite" and Mr Kilroy-Silk believes that his
experience as a chatshow host makes him a champion of public opinion. The party
is also being advised by two of the most accomplished publicity experts
available for hire: Max Clifford, a master manipulator of the tabloids, and Dick
Morris, the American consultant who masterminded President Clinton's comeback
and re-election in 1996.

Although the Greens won two seats in 1999, they are particularly vulnerable to
the fact that the overall number of seats allocated to Britain is being reduced
from 87 to 78.

This means that, if they fail to improve on the six per cent share of the
national vote they achieved last time, they will probably not win a single seat.

The Greens are also handicapped by the fact that they are one of several parties
campaigning on an anti-war manifesto. One of them is Respect, a new party formed
by activists from the Stop the War campaigning which is fielding George
Galloway, the MP expelled from Labour, as its lead candidate in London.

The British National Party is hoping to achieve a breakthrough on June 10. It
holds 17 council seats, and its leader, Nick Griffin, is standing as the lead
candidate in the North-West in the European elections.

The BNP also believes that it could do well enough to get a seat in the London
Assembly, where some members are elected on a proportional representation basis.

In the Eastern region, the former BBC journalist and independent MP Martin Bell
is trying to stage a political comeback by fighting the European elections as an
independent. He achieved a spectacular victory when he stood on an anti-sleaze
ticket against the Tory MP Neil Hamilton in Tatton in 1997 and now he is vowing
to take on EU corruption if elected to Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              112 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 24, 2004, Monday

Why the rapid rise of UKIP will spread alarm among big three Critics see polls
as crucial test of Blair leadership Labour

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 07

LENGTH: 819 words

AFTER an exhausting six months, dominated by a deteriorating situation in Iraq,
policy about-turns and speculation over his future, the last thing Tony Blair
needs is a mid-term round of elections.

His critics are already setting up the June 10 polls as a make or break test of
his leadership after seven years as Prime Minister.

When Parliament rises for the 10-day Whitsun recess on Thursday Mr Blair will
hit the campaign trail, defending the record of his Government and fending off
increasingly aggressive attacks from the Tories and Liberal Democrats.

The last time the Euro elections were fought, five years ago, Labour suffered
heavy losses on a dismally low 23 per cent turn out. The Tory triumph proved to
be a false dawn for William Hague, the then Conservative leader. Two years
later, Mr Blair again trounced the Tories, winning his second general election
with another huge majority.

But the electoral landscape has changed since then. Labour knows it faces a
re-invigorated Conservative Party and a more credible Tory leader in Michael
Howard - while Mr Blair's trust ratings have collapsed in the wake of the
failure to find weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.

Labour demonstrated its concern that Mr Howard presented a more serious threat
than either Mr Hague or Iain Duncan Smith by opening its campaign with an
entirely negative attack on the Tory leader.

Despite promising to make the case for closer European integration and campaign
on Labour's record, Mr Blair has sought to demonise Mr Howard by highlighting
his role in introducing the poll tax.

In 1999 the country was still prepared to give Mr Blair the benefit of the
doubt. After 18 years of Conservative rule, he had served only two years as
Prime Minister. Now he has a record to defend.

Big injections of public funds have brought improvements in health and education
but there is a widespread view that Mr Blair has failed to live up to other
ambitious promises - and some areas, such as transport, have got worse.

According to the Tories, "disillusionment" is the word that most sums up
feelings towards Labour. The economy remains Labour's strongest card. Despite
recent rises, interest rates are low, as are mortgages, while employment is
strong. Recent sharp increases in the price of petrol are worrying ministers but
may not reach crisis point before the elections.

In the run-up to the 1999 polls, Labour was still riding high in the opinion
polls, with 52 per cent saying they would vote for Mr Blair, compared to 29 per
cent for the Tories. Now the Tories have a lead and have overtaken Labour to
become the largest party in local government.

Five years ago, there was undoubtedly an element of election fatigue. Voters had
been to the polls the previous month for local elections and to elect the new
Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly.

Many probably stayed at home because they did not feel any need to go out and
register a protest vote against Mr Blair. This time Labour MPs are braced for
deliberate abstentions from many of their traditional voters.

The past weeks have been damaging for the Prime Minister. The abuse of Iraqi
detainees by American forces has undermined the moral case for the war and
dismayed many Labour Party supporters. Membership has fallen, while activists
are disillusioned and reluctant to take an active part in campaigning.

Alarm bells are already ringing in Labour's high command that a low turn-out
could enable the far-Right British National Party to make gains in the north of
England, particularly Yorkshire, where it is fielding 101 candidates.

Labour has sought to avoid coming fourth in the London mayoral election by
re-admitting Ken Livingstone to the party. London is a crucial election
battleground, with many marginal parliamentary seats.

Senior Labour figures are already seeking to play down the results of next
month's elections, claiming that a low turn-out means that they will not be a
reliable indicator to voting intentions come the next general election.

The party's nightmare scenario is that it could come third in terms of popular
vote behind the Liberal Democrats. That would undoubtedly set off a new bout of
speculation about Mr Blair's leadership.

The Conservatives have targeted 164 seats that they need to win at the next
election if they are to gain power. Of these, 130 are Labour and, if the party
does badly on June 10, backbenchers in marginal seats will be getting out their
calculators and working out their chances for survival.

The Cabinet has rallied round to quash speculation about Mr Blair's leadership -
and the Prime Minister and Gordon Brown have publicly reaffirmed their
friendship. But questions about Mr Blair's future are not far below the surface.

Bad election results next month will set them off again and could yet determine
whether Mr Blair leads his party into a third general election next year.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              113 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 24, 2004, Monday

UKIP scoring on the anti-Brussels card

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 21

LENGTH: 451 words

According to our YouGov survey, the UK Independence Party is set to emerge as
the big winner at the European election on June 10, beating the Liberal
Democrats into fourth place. All the normal caveats about opinion polls apply,
of course; but any result along these lines would revolutionise the European
debate. With 17 days to go, it is hard to see what the mainstream parties can do
about UKIP. They could point out that the party has more than its fair share of
freaks and obsessives. They could dismiss it as a single-issue movement, with no
prospect of forming a government. They could portray it as kooky, inept and
hopelessly divided. There would be a measure of truth in all these charges. But
the voters don't seem to care. They are not backing UKIP because they want to
see Robert Kilroy-Silk in Downing Street, but because they wish to send a signal
to all the parties about Brussels' interference in our national affairs.

It is a remarkable feature of public opinion that, depending on how the question
is asked, between 35 and 45 per cent of people want to leave the EU - despite
this position not being advocated by any major party, newspaper or politician.
UKIP is engaging in clever niche-marketing, presenting itself as the
plain-speaking alternative to a cartel of Euro-philes. The prospect of a
referendum has forced Labour and the Lib Dems to be more vocal in their support
for closer integration. The Tories, for their part, oppose the constitution, but
their scepticism has a dated, early 1990s feel to it. In those days, Michael
Howard's talk of "variable geometry" and "a flexible Europe" was daring. But
public opinion has moved on; and so has the European project. People can see the
direction in which the EU is moving, and are no longer to be fobbed off with
cant about "a Europe of nations". They want to know what Britain would do in the
event that most other EU states pushed ahead with political union.

There was a moment when Mr Howard seemed to suggest an answer. In his Berlin
speech, he indicated that Britain would stand aside as a friend and sponsor
while the more federally minded states went ahead on their own. But the
Conservatives appear to have retreated from that position: their European
manifesto is full of bromides about reforming the CAP, cutting red tape and so
on. (To be fair, Tony Blair's referendum announcement anticipated what would
have been the centrepiece of their platform.) The only way to choke off the UKIP
advance is for one of the mainstream parties - which, in effect, means the
Conservatives - to offer a plausible vision of a self-governing Britain. They
still have time - just - to do so before June 10. We hope they use it.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              114 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 24, 2004

Poll shows UKIP is gaining on Lib Dems

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 206 words


The ability of the three main parties to dominate elections takes a knock today
with publication of an opinion poll suggesting that the UK Independence Party
might get more votes on June 10 than the Liberal Democrats.

In the drive by all smaller parties to eat into the support of the big three,
UKIP - with £2m to spend on the campaign - is probably the best funded. It has a
simple message too: Britain should leave the EU.

According to a YouGov poll in today's Daily Telegraph, UKIP is trailing the Lib
Dems 14% to 18%, with Labour and the Tories neck and neck in the high 20% range.
But among those very likely to vote, UKIP leads 18% to 15%.

Charles Kennedy of the Lib Dems has been quietly confident that he can take
seats and control of councils from both Labour and Tories in next month's
triple-elections - for Europe, local authorities and the mayor of London - on
the grounds that they offer a chance to protest over Tony Blair's conduct in the
Iraq war.

Labour ministers privately expect to take a hit over Iraq. There are worries
about Respect the Greens in London and the South East, and concerns about
activism among British National Party supporters in some parts of the Midlands
and the north.


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              115 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 24, 2004, Monday

UKIP THREAT TO LIB DEMS

SECTION: 1 Star Slip Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 75 words


THE UK Independence party could get more votes than the Liberal Democrats in
next month's Euro elections, according to a survey.

If the anti-European group did succeed it would be a blow to Lib Dem leader
Charles Kennedy.

A YouGov poll showed UKIP is ahead among those who are "very likely" to vote and
it could win more than a dozen seats.

The Tories lead the race on 28 points with Labour just behind on 27, the survey
revealed.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              116 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 23, 2004

Focus: Cliffhanger in the capital: So which way will the voters swing?

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 246 words


CAMILLA FROM CHELSEA

She's always hated that dreadful little Livingstone man. She has three cars and
dreads having to pay just to get her Merc out of the garage when they extend the
awful congestion charge. The dashing Steve Norris has the right ideas and he
will abolish the whole scheme, so he gets her vote. Her second preference will
go to the UK Independence party.

CARL FROM CROUCH END

Carl is a public sector worker who backed Ken Livingstone in 2000 and in the GLC
days. He has now changed sides because he opposes the Iraq war, and can't
stomach Livingstone's New Labour tag. Carl, a keen cyclist, will vote for the
Green party's Darren Johnson and give his second preference to the Liberal
Democrat Simon Hughes.

ED FROM EALING

Management consultant Ed admires everything Tony's done to modernise the Labour
party, and voted for Frank Dobson in 2000 to try to stop Livingstone getting his
greasy hands back on the capital. Grudgingly he accepts that Ken hasn't been
such a disaster and, though it sticks in his throat, he will vote for him. His
second preference will be the Green party.

MARY FROM MARYLEBONE

Mary feels disfranchised. She voted for Ken last time but won't now because he's
thrown in his lot with New Labour. But she dismisses the Greens and Respect as
likely losers, and won't back Norris because he'd abolish the congestion charge,
which she supports. She may vote Lib Dem, but probably just won't vote at all.


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              117 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 23, 2004

FOCUS; EUROPE WILL BE THE LOSER IF WE VOTE NO

BYLINE: By Julia HartleyBrewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  21

LENGTH: 1651 words


TRADE and Industry Secretary Patricia Hewitt claims that a No vote in the
referendum on the new European constitution would mean Britain pulling out of
the European Union. The leading Cabinet Minister told voters that "In or Out was
the fundamental question" for the referendum, which is expected after the next
General Election. Critics immediately accused Ms Hewitt of using scare tactics
to sway the vote. But should we be scared? Or do the facts suggest that the
other states of the EU have more to lose by Britain's withdrawal than Britain
does?

EUROPHILES and eurosceptics have long debated the pros and cons of Britain
pulling out of the European Union. But what would be the cost to the other
members if we chose to be the first member state to leave? And could they really
afford to let us go?

A Sunday Express investigation has revealed that the costs to European business,
trade and jobs would be enormous - while the loss of Britain's military might
and status on the world diplomatic stage could be too high a price for the EU to
pay.

In simple financial terms, the Brussels bureaucracy would lose its second
biggest contributor. Currently, Britain gives an annual net figure of some GBP
3.5billion - after rebates and investments are repaid from its gross GBP
11billion contribution.

This would leave Germany, which already shoulders a vast share of the costs of
running the union, to pay even more into Brussels coffers.

A No vote could not come at a worse time. The 10 new EU states which arrived
earlier this month already mean less money for everywhere else.

The eight former Soviet bloc countries which have joined will soak up billions
in funding to improve their infrastructure and industry.

Nigel Farage, a UK Independence party MEP, said: "We estimate that the British
economy would enjoy an immediate dividend of at least GBP 20billion in the first
year of leaving the EU."

That dividend would mostly be at other EU countries' expense.

At first glance, the UK's swift exit from the EU would be a god-send to France
and Germany.

Their political leaders, France's President Jacques Chirac and the German
Chancellor Gerhart Schroder, would be delighted to be rid of the main bulwark
against their integrationist and federalist dreams for Europe.

But, in reality, the two biggest and most influential EU members would be the
main losers from a UK-free EU. Not only would they be expected by their smaller
- and poorer - neighbours to make up the financial shortfall left by Britain's
departure, but they would also be most at risk of losing billions in business
investment to the UK.

Britain would immediately gain a huge competitive advantage over EU economies if
the Government cut the bureaucratic red tape imposed on businesses by Brussels.

Economic experts predict many major companies based in France and Germany would
relocate to Britain to escape EU regulations - forcing further job losses in
countries already suffering high unemployment levels.

Scaremongers have suggested it would be impossible for Britain to leave the EU
because we could not afford to lose our closest trading partners.

Yet while it would never be in Britain's interests to sever trading links with
the continent, neither could the EU afford to lose the UK's huge export market -
the largest single one for exports from France and Germany.

The UK is also the biggest single source of inward investment in EU countries.
If we are cut off from Europe, many jobs could be at risk.

Any attempt by the European Commission to cut trade with the UK would, in any
case, be in breach of international law and World Trade Organisation rules, and
would be vigorously opposed by member states anxious to keep this vital market
open.

Mr Farage said: "We don't trade with the EU as an organisation, we trade with
the individual countries. When Britain leaves this ghastly corrupt club, the
cost to the EU countries would be disastrous if the EU on behalf of its members
decided to break WTO rules and launch an international trade war on Britain.

"They need us more than we need them."

In fact, Britain would almost certainly be able to negotiate a free-trade
agreement with the EU, just as other states, such as Norway, have done - in
return for paying contributions into EU coffers.

But it is not only the big beasts of France and Germany who would lose out
without Britain in Europe.

Sweden and Denmark - both of which voted against joining the single currency in
national referendums - would also lose a key ally outside the eurozone.

The anti-EU feeling among Swedes and Danes might even lead to calls for them to
leave the union as well, which could destabilise the EU and cause other members
to question the future direction of the union.

The loss of Britain would also raise doubts about the benefits of membership
among many of the Eastern European bloc countries. They have long looked to the
British and American free-market economic model rather than the more
interventionist and protectionist continental model.

The UK played a leading role in pushing for enlargement of the EU eastwards and
Poland, Hungary and the other former-Soviet bloc nations also see the UK as a
crucial ally in holding back the Franco-German plans for a federalist Europe.

As one Brussels source said: "If Britain leaves it then becomes a very different
Europe than the one the Eastern European countries signed up to.

Remember, all of these countries stood up against France and Germany ahead of
the Iraq war to support the US and Britain. They don't want to be told what to
do by Brussels any more than they did by Moscow."

But the loss of Britain's long-standing ability to build strategic alliances and
partnerships over specific issues would be keenly felt by EU members such as
Italy, Spain and the Nordic countries.

Britain has been an important ally for Italy in the fight to reform the Common
Agricultural Policy, vigorously defended by France - its main beneficiary.

We have also provided a staunch defence against Franco-German calls for taxes to
be harmonised across the EU, a move which is opposed by Italy, Spain and the
Nordic countries who are all keen to maintain the right to set their own tax
rates.

The UK has also worked closely with the Irish, Finland, Sweden and Denmark to
push their joint agenda for reforming the Brussels bureaucracy and create more
open markets. Quite apart from Britain's role in forming alliances within
Europe, we also play an important role in forming the EU's foreign policy.

MOST commentators accept that, without the UK, the EU would have less political
clout in world politics and international negotiations. The EU is a much more
powerful entity with the UK - the world's fourth largest economy - among its
members.

As Lucy Powell, campaign director at Britain in Europe, commented: "The EU has a
much stronger position when it comes to negotiations over things like the WTO
and the Kyoto climate-change treaty because we are the most successful economic
unions in the world."

Britain also offers a vital diplomatic link to the United States, the world's
only superpower - which would be diluted without EU membership. Despite attempts
at a rapprochement between the US and the French and German leaders after the
bitter dispute over the Iraq war, America instinctively looks to Britain first
in its relations with Europe.

The EU would be a less serious player on the world stage without Britain, which
provides the only serious military might in the union. Without British forces on
hand, Europe has no independent military capability and will be left heavily
reliant on US forces.

Of course, it would not just be individual countries or policies that would be
affected by Britain's departure. There would also be a huge upheaval in the
daily workings of the EU institutions.

They would lose out on British expertise in the Commission and other
institutions, where some 3,000 Britons work in the huge bureaucracy, many of
whom are attached to the British Government and would leave their posts.

And without us there would be no reason for English to be one of the two
official working languages of the EU.

HOW THE EU WOULD SUFFER IF THE UK LEFT

European Commission in Brussels The Commission would lose out on the UK's GBP
3.5billion annual net contribution to EU coffers.

France and Germany The French and Germans would also lose out economically as
major businesses relocated to Britain. Both countries would lose their biggest
export market.

Eastern Europe Poland, Hungary and the other former Soviet bloc nations look to
the UK as a crucial ally in holding back the FrancoGerman plans for a federalist
Europe.

Italy Needs the UK as a partner in fighting for reform of the Common
Agricultural Policy, defended by France.

Finland, Sweden and Denmark.

The Nordic countries would lose their closest ally in pushing their agenda for
reform and more liberal markets.

Sweden and Denmark These countries would lose the UK as a fellow EU ally outside
the eurozone. They might even follow the UK in leaving the EU altogether.

Ireland The UK is Ireland's biggest ally and keeps its national tongue as the
working language of the EU.

Italy, Spain and the Nordic countries They would lose Britain's clout in
fighting Franco-German calls for taxes to be harmonised across the EU.

Defence Britain provides the only serious military might in the EU.

Without us, there is no independent military capability.

Economy The UK is the biggest single source of inward investment in EU
countries. If we are cut off from Europe, many jobs could be at risk.

Foreign Policy Without the UK, the EU will have less political clout in world
politics and international negotiations. The UK is a vital diplomatic link to
the United States.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              118 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 23, 2004

LEADER CROSS BENCHER; BELL SHRUGS OFF AMNESTY SNUB

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 202 words


ASBritain's favourite whiter than white politician, Martin Bell usually finds a
warm welcome wherever he goes.

But now the man in the white suit, who is standing as a candidate in next
month's European elections for the Eastern region, has found himself persona non
grata at an event hosted by his old friends at Amnesty.

The human rights group is holding a campaign hustings on the Iraq war this week
with all the candidates in the Eastern region - all, that is, except Bell.

When the former BBC war reporter and independent MP for Tatton rang to inquire
why he had been snubbed, he was told the platform would get "too crowded" if he
were to join the Labour, Tory, Lib Dem, Green and UK Independence Party
candidates at the event in Cambridge.

One campaign insider said: "It seems bizarre that Amnesty want to hold a public
debate on the issue of the war in Iraq and yet they are excluding the only
candidate with any first hand knowledge of war."

Bell has now made other plans. "Instead of attending this great debate, " he
confides, "I'm going to a beating the retreat ceremony at Colchester Castle as
patron of the Colchester Military Festival, which will be much more enjoyable."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              119 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 23, 2004

LEADER; BACKING BRITAIN IS NOT A BLACK AND WHITE ISSUE

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 565 words


ONE of the most remarkable features of my campaign to be elected as an MEP for
the UK Independence Party is the way in which our British nationality unites us
all. Every time I have addressed groups of people in market squares, town
centres or shopping malls, the reaction has been the same. When I say that it is
important to get our country back from the remote, corrupt bureaucracy in
Brussels and to govern ourselves, they all nod approvingly.

But when I argue we must also get our country back from the metropolitan,
politically-correct elite who try to make us feel ashamed of being British, it
is the members of the ethnic groups who shout the most enthusiastically.

They have no problem about their identity. They are British, and proud to be so.
They say so openly, exuberantly, with smiling faces.

Yet, according to the incestuous London political elite, all the people I am
meeting are members of separate "communities", have a different identity, are
divided from the mainstream of British life and culture. We're told they are
isolated, alienated, that they get offended if we celebrate Christmas and
Easter.

What nonsense.

There may be some, of course, but not the majority, not those I've been meeting.

The trouble with our self-selected political elite is that they don't get out
enough. But, then, they actively do not want to hear anything positive. They
thrive on the negative, on division, on conflict. I suppose they wouldn't get
their grants for "diversity" training, and to promote differences if the truth
came out that most people are happy to be British. Indeed, it is the
metropolitan politically-correct elite that creates prejudice and imposes
stereotypes. This was typified by the reporter from The Times who accompanied my
campaign last week.

She set after four black girls from Leicester who had just told me that they
agreed with what I had been saying about being British. As a black man who
overheard her questions reported back to me:

"She seems to be wanting to put words in their mouths. She told them that they
surely couldn't be comfortable in a 'white man' party, " and, when challenged by
him, she said she wanted to ensure that they knew that UKIP was Right-wing,
whatever that's supposed to mean?

If she was not already creating conflict, she was clearly looking for it where
none existed.

Fortunately, the girls would have none of it. They knew their minds and spoke
accurately.

ANGELA DUNN, Warrington Council's bereavement service manager, appears to be a
killjoy. She has instructed 70-year-old Wilf Ball to remove all personal
mementoes, such as toys and teddies, from the grave of his son, Jonathan, at the
Fox Covert cemetery.

Three-year-old Jonathan Ball was, you will remember, murdered by the IRA
Warrington bomb that also killed Tim Parry, in 1993.

Mrs Dunn, in the unfriendly language I thought was employed only by Brussels
bureaucrats, said "regulations" prohibit the placing of personal objects on or
around the turfed areas of graves. She then went on to moan that they were a
health hazard and, anyway, make it difficult to keep the cemetery clean and
attractive.

There are dozens of dirty areas in and around Warrington. If Mrs Dunn is really
concerned about cleaning up the town, why doesn't she turn her energies to one
or two of these and leave grieving fathers in peace?

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              120 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 23, 2004

BACKING BRITAIN IS NOT A BLACK OR WHITE ISSUE

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 574 words


ONE of the most remarkable features of my campaign to be elected as an MEP for
the UK Independence Party is the way in which our British nationality unites us,
all of us, of whatever ethnic origin, colour or creed. It has been absolutely
striking and commented upon by everyone who has had any connection with our
campaign.

Every time I have addressed groups of people in market squares, town centres or
shopping malls - be it in Leicester or Lincoln, Nottingham or Northampton - the
reaction has been the same. When I say that it is important to get our country
back from the remote, corrupt bureaucracy in Brussels and to govern ourselves,
they all nod approvingly.

But when I argue that we must also get our country back from the metropolitan,
politically-correct elite who try to make us feel ashamed of being British, who
try to make us feel guilty of being proud of our history, traditions and
culture, it is the members of the ethnic groups that shout the most
enthusiastically.

They have no problem about their identity. They are British, and proud to be so.
They say so openly, exuberantly, with smiling faces.

Yet, according to the incestuous London political elite, all the people I am
meeting are members of separate "communities", have a different identity, are
divided from the mainstream of British life and culture. We're told that they
are isolated, alienated, that they get offended if we fly the Union flag,
celebrate St George's Day, Christmas and Easter.

What nonsense. What balderdash.

There may be some, of course, but not the majority, not those I've been meeting.

The trouble with our self-selected political elite is that they don't get out
enough. Not only do they not live in the real world, they do not meet real
people.

Instead, they spend their time slapping each other's backs, praising each
other's speeches, articles, novels or TV programmes, networking in the Groucho
club and the restaurants of Soho. Well they've got it wrong, they have
misunderstood, they're certainly out of touch with real people.

But, then, they actively do not want to hear anything positive. They thrive on
the negative, on division, on conflict. I suppose they wouldn't get their grants
for "diversity" training, and to promote differences if the truth came out that
most people are happy to be British.

Indeed, it is the metropolitan politicallycorrect elite that creates prejudice
and imposes stereotypes. This was typified by the reporter from The Times who
accompanied my campaign one afternoon last week.

She set after four black girls from Leicester who had just told me that they
agreed with what I had been saying about being British. As a black man who
overheard her questions reported back to me:

"She seems to be wanting to put words in their mouths. She told them that they
surely couldn't be comfortable in a 'white man' party, " and, when challenged by
him, she said she wanted to ensure that they knew that UKIP was Right-wing,
whatever that's supposed to mean?

If she was not already creating conflict, she was clearly looking for it where
none existed. Fortunately, the girls would have none of it. They knew their
minds and spoke accurately.

So do the British people - of all backgrounds, origin, colour and creed. They
are confident of their identity and we can be confident that we are united as a
people who are proud to be British and want their country back.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              121 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 23, 2004

THE MOOD SWING IN 1970 FINISHED LABOUR. COULD IT HAPPEN IN JUNE?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 520 words


Kilroy's week . . . preaching his anti-EU gospel on UK Independence Party's
campaign trail

MONDAY: Where are all the other political parties? I've been on the campaign
trail for two weeks and I've not seen sight or sound of them - not a party, a
leaflet or a candidate.

Don't they care? Aren't they interested in the voters? Don't they have anything
to say about the EU? No, no and no, obviously.

A woman in Melton Mowbray - which make great pork pies - asked me why I was
there.

"To meet the electors, " I said.

"Yes, but why Melton?" "Why not?"

"Because we never see anyone here." "Well, I don't take the voters for granted,
" I answered.

She looked me up and down, turned on her heel saying, as she swept off, "That's
good enough for me. You've got my vote."

TUESDAY: This beautiful May weather worries me. It's great that it brings
smiling people out into the streets and that they all appear to be relaxed, but
it reminds me of the first general election I fought, and lost, in June 1970.

We had unbroken blue skies for the entire campaign. It made people feel good,
happy.

Everyone thought that the then Prime Minister Harold Wilson's Labour party would
walk it. The polls said he would. We believed them.

But something happened over the last weekend. People stopped smiling. They
turned sour. You could actually feel it. None of us ever understood what it was
that caused a massive national change in attitude but it happened and Wilson
lost.

It couldn't happen this June, could it?

WEDNESDAY: We were in the narrow main streets of a bustling market town w hen a
fire engine screeched to a halt alongside me. "That's Kilroy, " one of them said
excitedly, opening their cab door.

"It's my man. You say what we all think, " he said, standing massive on the
pavement as his comrades tumbled out of the cab. Big hands shook mine. "Don't
let them gag you. You keep telling it as it is, we all support you."

Behind the fire engine a traffic j am had formed. Irate car horns tooted. Did I
lose more votes than I gained?

THURSDAY: Question Time in Sheffield after filming the UKIP party political
broadcast in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire. I thought Question Time might be
exciting but it was the same old politicians from the old parties pedalling
their predictable party line.

The amiability of the green room before the recording evaporated after I had
pointed out on the programme how we had all been constantly lied to by
successive governments ever since we entered the EU.

The audience seemed to be much better informed than the panellists.

FRIDAY: We have obviously got a bandwagon rolling - the whole world seems to
want to follow me around the East Midlands, including German and Austrian
television. The only trouble is that what is becoming a bit of a media scrum
gets in the way of meeting the voters.

SATURDAY: Some of the best fish and chips are to be found in Derek Jackson's
shop in Gladstone Street, Ilkeston, Derbyshire. I've not tasted anything so
succulent since I worked cleaning a fish and chip shop when I was a schoolboy.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              122 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 22, 2004

The big lie

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_1ST_LTV; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 564 words


LABOUR was accused of resorting to a 'desperate scare tactic' yesterday after a
senior Cabinet minister indicated that a 'no' vote on the EU constitution would
mean Britain pulling out of Europe.

Trade Secretary Patricia Hewitt said the key question in the debate was 'in or
out'.

She told BBC1's Question Time: 'Do we want to be in Europe and play a leading
role in Europe or do we want to be out or on the sidelines frankly rather like
Norway, trading with Europe, obliged to comply with all Europe's rules, but
having not a say at all in the decisions that Europe takes?

'In or out is the fundamental question.' Her comments, ahead of Tony Blair's
promised referendum on the constitution, enraged the Tories.

Their foreign affairs spokesman Michael Ancram, who also appeared on Thursday's
programme, hit back at Miss Hewitt's claim that his party wanted to quit the EU.

He said: 'Labour's lie that a "no" vote to the constitution would throw us out
of Europe is a desperate scare tactic from a party that is losing the argument
and knows it.' The claim by the pro-European Miss Hewitt also flies in the face
of Mr Blair's own reluctant admission that a 'no' vote in the referendum would
not mean Britain pulling out of the EU.

A leaked memo has revealed that the Prime Minister was originally keen to turn
the poll into an all-out debate on whether the UK should stay in Europe.

In an email to friends signed 'TB', he wrote: 'This has to be as much as
possible about in or out of Europe.' But he was later forced to admit that a
'no' vote would carry no such weight.

Mr Blair told last month's Downing Street news conference that if voters
rejected the constitution 'you would have to sit down and talk about it' with
the other member states.

The man who drafted the would mean the UK would 'not be in the core but on the
edge. It is the same case as the euro'.

And one of the Government's own advisers on the constitution, Cambridge law
professor Alan Dashwood, has warned that only by a 'political revolution' could
failure to ratify the new treaty lead to a country leaving the EU.

'If you don't ratify the new treaty then the old treaty continues to apply,' he
told the EU Observer magazine.

Mr Ancram said: 'There are three positions on Europe: those who wish to pull out
completely such as UKIP (UK Independence Party), those who wish to see us bound
by an inflexible constitution such as Labour and the Liberal Democrats, and our
position of an alternative vision of a flexible Europe.

'If people vote no it would give Europe the opportunity to discuss seriously for
the first time a more flexible way forward.

'Everyone agrees the EU badly needs reform; but a constitution is completely the
wrong answer.' Gordon Brown yesterday won key support from France and Germany in
his attempts to prevent Brussels interfering in Britain's tax policies.

His fellow ministers in Paris and Berlin backed one of Britain's 'red lines' on
the EU constitution that countries must keep control of fiscal policy.

In a joint article in the Financial Times, they wrote: 'National governments
must remain responsible for fiscal policy and assume this responsibility
vis-avis their fellow citizens.' The wording signals a shift in the two European
heavyweights' position on tax harmonisation.

d.hughes@dailymail.co.uk

END

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PATRICIA HEWITT: 'IN OR OUT'

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              123 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 21, 2004, Friday

Kilroy tries to turn viewers into voters

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 968 words


The former Labour MP and chat-show host had Lincoln basking in his anti-EU
enthusiasm. Helen Rumbelow reports

THE Kilroy show came to the East Midlands this week, but with a difference.

The host was there, instantly recognisable as the tanned, tactile Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the erstwhile Labour MP turned chat-show presenter, now seeking a
new career as a right-wing MEP.

The audience demographic was also similar, comprising, on Lincoln High Street,
those who have time to stop and stare during a weekday: the retired, the
unemployed and mature and immature students. But Kilroy's theme was not "should
I leave my cheating husband?" but "should Britain leave a cheating European
Union?"

In place of his microphone he had a large purple and yellow rosette from the UK
Independence Party, which is fielding him as its best hope of gaining a seat in
the region, as well as basking its little-known party in some of Kilroy's fame
before the European Parliament elections next month.

As soon as the hot sun climbed over Lincoln Cathedral, it was as if the studio
lights were switched on, and Kilroy bounded from his chauffeur-driven Jaguar
(car sticker: "say boo to the EU") and into the crowds. He immediately spotted
two white-haired women on a bench. "Give us a kiss," he told them and, before
waiting for an answer, hugged and kissed them. They looked at first bewildered,
then thrilled.

"It's you, isn't it?" the first woman said.

"It's me, my love," Mr Kilroy-Silk said warmly. Seventeen weeks after being
suspended from his BBC One show for ill-considered remarks about Arabs, he was
back. He did not so much work the crowd as cuddle, stroke and squeeze it, as if
trying to turn viewers to voters by the power of touch alone.

As in chat shows, the topic for debate often wandered, the audience asking "Is
it really him?" while Kilroy's message was boiled down to "Do I get your vote?"

whispered into women's damp napes. Jan, his wife, who like her husband is from
Birmingham, looked on fondly.

Most of Lincoln was awed, and not just the women who came running from Clarks
and Littlewoods to be embraced, pleading for him to sign the bronzed photo on
his election flyers. There was no chat-show-style brawling, but twice The
Times's pen was snatched in the crush for autographs. Many shouted support for
him "speaking his mind".

One 18-year-old called Simon managed to arrest him in his onward surge. "What
are you actually standing for?" he asked.

"It's about getting Britain out of Europe," Mr Kilroy-Silk said. "I want us to
be able to trade with them, but we should be able to be governed by people like
you.

We can't do that because we're in the grips of corrupt Brussels."

"So, you're not in any way racist?" This question has annoyed the party to the
extent that they require all members to sign a pledge that they have never
joined an extreme-right party and state that they are anti-racist in their
manifesto.

They won their first three seats in the last European elections in 1999, six
years after forming, on a platform of Britain leaving the European Union and a
"firm but fair" policy of ending economic immigration. "Not at all racist," said
Mr Kilroy-Silk, eyes alighting on a young black woman craning towards him to
capture his image on her mobile phone.

"You -are you British?"

"Yes," said Nadine Golding, 21, and was rewarded with a bone-crunching hug.

"She's as British as me or you, all the same," said Kilroy.

Once released, Miss Golding, a business studies student from Lincoln, who
normally votes Labour, said that she agreed with his message.

"I've looked into it at college. Germany isn't doing so well since they joined
the euro," she said.

Did she agree with the UKIP's policy on immigration? "There is some good and
some bad to what he says. I'll have to give it some thought before I vote, but
he seems like a nice guy," she said.

Her friend Shauna Lindo, 19, said: "He could be faking it." She will vote for
him nevertheless. "I like him because on his show he had a go at people who were
being nobbers. That's if I could get up early enough to watch it."

Despite its small number of seats, UKIP is the fourth-biggest British party in
the European Parliament, where it styles itself as the clergy addressing sinners
in the whorehouse, dedicated to proving the corruption of the institution. It
has recently emerged from the shadow of the late James Goldsmith's high-profile
Referendum Party, but the 8,000-strong group has been riven by in-fighting.

Its founder, Alan Sked, left in rancour. He was succeeded as leader by Michael
Holmes, one of the party's three MEPs, who swiftly resigned. UKIP says he left
on health grounds, but Mr Holmes says he left because of months of internal
party difficulties.

The party's fortunes have recently revived with £2 million in the campaign
coffers, including large sums donated by Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire shopping
centre tycoon, and having engaged the services of the publicist Max Clifford.

Mr Kilroy-Silk is top of their list of candidates in the East Midlands, and
would have to double the 7 per cent of the vote the party received in the region
at the last election to be guaranteed a seat. If he is elected, there are many
in the party who want him to take over the leadership from Robert Knapman, the
former Conservative MP.

He relishes his return to politics: "It's terrific, it's what I know," he said.

"I've never been impartial, I got sacked by the BBC for not being impartial."

Then he spies something else to hug: a dog being carried in a wicker basket at
the back of Yvonne Look's bicycle.

"Ah, now here's a true British dog," he said, cuddling Benji.

"He's a shih-tzu," said Mrs Look, but the show had moved on.


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              124 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 19, 2004, Wednesday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 708 words


Yorkshire tycoon reveals his hand behind the UKIP

A few weeks after Robert Kilroy-Silk announced that he was standing for the UK
Independence Party in next month's European elections, another of the party's
big backers has decided to come out of the closet.

The Yorkshire property tycoon Paul Sykes - who has been quietly bankrolling the
anti-EU party since 2001 - is going public, after years of refusing all requests
for interviews on the subject.

Sykes (above, right) has been assigned an official press officer, and on Monday,
he gave a colourful interview to the Yorkshire Post.

"This is our Waterloo," he said. "Our own opinion polls, and other national
polls are telling us that the majority of people in Britain now favour an
amicable withdrawal from the European Union, if Britain was guaranteed a free
trade agreement."

According to his (new) official spokesman, Sykes - who is worth a reported
pounds 450m - decided to mount a PR offensive because he believes June's
election may be his final chance of getting Britain to pull out of Europe.

"Paul thinks that the political climate has changed, and that this may be the
last proper chance of getting someone like Michael Howard to move on Europe,"
I'm told.

One area remains off limit, though: Sykes will not discuss how much he has
donated to UKIP's campaign fund, indicating merely that it is more than pounds
100,000.

An unusual honour

A SIGNAL honour for Kevin Spacey (left) as he takes the hot seat at the Old Vic:
John Leslie has named his pet dog Kaiser Soze, after the character Spacey made
famous in The Usual Suspects.

"It's a jolly cute, six-month-old Weimaraner puppy," says a neighbour of Leslie.
"They are the latest breed to have: sleek and grey and everyone is buying them.
John is often out with it on Sheen Common behind his house."

As to why the pooch has been named Kaiser Soze, I gather that The Usual Suspects
is Leslie's favourite film. He admires Spacey's role because, "Soze is prepared
to kill his own family to show his enemies how lethal he can be."

The shape of things to come?

THE TWEEDY, Barbour-wearing country sports lobby aren't the only ones delighted
by my report that Michael Howard has given an interview to The Field.

Glamorous actress Sienna Guillory (left), a strident supporter of field sports,
is cock-a-hoop at the Tory leader's pledge - noted by this column yesterday - to
commit government time to overturning any ban on hunting.

"It's great news," she said at the first night of her new play, The Shape of
Things. "Even though I live in London, I'm still 100 per cent in support of
hunting. I'm living proof that the urban community doesn't all think it should
all be banned.

"Sadly, I didn't hunt at all this year, because my horse got very old and died,"
she adds. "He was incredible; it was terribly, terribly sad."

Food for thought

MONDAY'S GLENFIDDICH Food & Drink Awards were a tour de force for The Guardian,
with Fiona Beckett and Roger Protz shortlisted as best drinks writer (Protz won)
and the columnist Heston Blumenthal named the Food & Drink personality of the
year.

All three were understandably chuffed, but The Guardian failed to give their
success so much as a mention. Why?

"Rather embarrassingly, both Beckett and Protz parted company with the newspaper
in January," says my mole. "What is more, Blumenthal's column has recently been
reduced from 1,500 words to a rather pathetic 300.

"Let's just say that they are unlikely to be shouting from the rooftops about
these particular gongs."

The Labour Party chairman Ian McCartney was in Parliament yesterday with his
right hand heavily bandaged and in a sling. How did he meet with such an injury?

"Ian was in a curry house late on Monday night, when a waiter spilled a piping
hot dahl all over him," says a chum. "A lot of it went on his hand, and he ended
up seriously burned and had to be rushed to hospital."

With an eye to current affairs, I gather that Macca has been telling friends
that he slashed his hand with a knife while trying to open oysters. "After the
Loch Fyne revelations, everyone in Westminster is making bad jokes about
oysters," I'm told.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              125 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 18, 2004

WICKED Whispers

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 543 words


NAOMI CAMPBELL (right) is threatening legal action against a new novel which she
claims mocks her.

Erica Kennedy has written Bling, about 'a bitchy, fading supermodel called
Vanessa De La Cruz' who is hated in the fashion industry because of her
tantrums. Cruz also starts a PR company which fails because she is too lazy.

Campbell has consulted lawyers, fearing the novel may be based on her.

Kennedy insists her characters are fictitious. Ringside seats, please!

GORDON RAMSAY'S ambition to make an American version of Kitchen Nightmares has
hit the buffers because of his fourletter vocabulary. My Stateside spy says:
'The production company asked Gordon not to swear, but he won't agree.

He says it's not just swearing for swearing's sake - it has a point.'

ACTION hero turned Governor of California Arnold Schwarzenegger ain't so butch -
he gets his hair dyed twice a month. 'He gets a haircut and sometimes a
pedicure,' says Beverly Hills crimper Giuseppe Franco. 'And sometimes he gets a
little colour - medium brown - on his sideburns. Most men do that, of course.'

MICHAEL GRADE began his first day as BBC chairman yesterday with a cosy email to
staff: 'Do give me a shout if you see me walking around. I'm the one with the
red socks (but no cigar these days).'

PSSSST!

WHICH children's TV presenter has been given a hefty telephone bill by his
employer after his dressing-room phone was used to call sex lines?

WHAT has Radio 1 controller Andy Parfitt got against his star breakfast
presenter, Chris Moyles? At last week's Sony Radio Awards, Moyles was on the
shortlist for DJ of the Year with XFM's Christian O'Connell.

After the winner was described as 'innovative and pushing back the boundaries',
Parfitt shook his head and mouthed 'Christian O'Connell'. He was right.

LET'S hope UK Independence Party Euro candidate Robert Kilroy-Silk (right) is
less gullible in politics this time round.

When he was first elected as a Labour MP, he held a birthday party on the
terrace of the House of Commons, where he flourished a congratulatory telegram
from the Queen. His fellow MPs had trouble stifling their merriment - they'd
sent the 'royal' telegram.

FAYE DUNAWAY is looking for a new maid.

Her previous helper, Belveth Geron, claims she was working at the Chinatown
star's Hollywood home when she tripped and fell down a 'defective outside
stairway'. She is suing Dunaway for wages and medical expenses, and adds that
she has not been able to make love since the incident.

BARBRA STREISAND is flogging her customised van on the eBay website. The Ford
Econoline, with satellite TV and monogrammed doors, has a starting bid of Pounds
4,000.

TESTING times for Christopher Biggins's friendship with Joan Collins. When
Biggins presented the evergreen star with a perfume gift set, he told her: 'I
bought it for my mother.'

AND FINALLY

JOHN PRESCOTT has been sharing his hairdressing regime with makeup girls at a
London TV studio. The Deputy Prime Minister revealed: 'I don't pay loads - my
wife gets that Just For Men dye, as I like it to look as natural as possible,
and I think it does, don't you?'

Have you got a story? Email us at wicked.whispers@dailymail.co.uk END

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              126 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 18, 2004, Tuesday

Fiennes enters unknown territory

BYLINE: By CHARLIE METHVEN

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 21

LENGTH: 250 words

Mystery surrounds the political allegiances of Britain's foremost explorer, Sir
Ranulph Fiennes. Just seven days ago, I reported the UK Independence Party's
delight at having signed up Fiennes - in place of the late Duke of Devonshire -
as patron of their European election campaign.

"Ranulph is totally supportive of what we're doing," said the Earl of Bradford,
the aristocrat-cum-restaurateur who'd enlisted his support.

Fiennes, for his part, echoed that enthusiasm, while adding the proviso that, in
future elections, he reserves the right to direct his support elsewhere.

But who could have forecast that, within a week, the eccentric Old Etonian would
already have switched parties?

For Spy has discovered that Fiennes has put himself forward as a candidate at
the European election - and not for UKIP, but the little-known Countryside
Party.

"His support for UKIP was announced before he was approached by us," says
Richard Malbon, who co-founded the Countryside Party in 2000. "While we have a
lot in common with UKIP, Sir Ranulph now feels our plans are more in line with
what he wishes to support."

When I call Lord Bradford, it is the first he has heard of the news. "I beg your
pardon?" he says.

"If this is true, he must be rather forgetful: I have the e-mail he sent me,
agreeing to be patron of our campaign. I want to know what's going on."

Alas, Sir Ranulph is unavailable to explain his change of heart. "I'm afraid
he's away until Saturday," says his spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              127 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 17, 2004

72% WANT POLL TO GET OUT OF EU

BYLINE: Tom Worden

LENGTH: 170 words


THREE out of four voters want a referendum on whether Britain should leave the
EU, a poll revealed yesterday.

Forty-five per cent would then vote to pull out of Europe - with only 43 per
cent choosing to stay in. But if the UK was guaranteed EU trading links, 51 per
cent of voters would prefer the country to be out of Europe.

The YouGov poll for the UK Independence Party (UKIP) also showed 54 per cent
believe a European constitution will increase the power of Brussels bureaucrats.

And in a big blow to Tony Blair, it predicts the Tories will win 35 per cent of
the vote in next month's Euro elections. Labour will get 26 per cent, the Lib
Dems 17 per cent and UKIP 5 per cent. But the UKIP's share would leap to 15 per
cent if EVERYONE had a chance to vote for Robert Kilroy-Silk. The ex-TV
presenter is standing for the Eurosceptic party in the East Midlands. UKIP Euro
MP Nigel Farage said: "More and more people want to withdraw from Europe even
without the guarantee of trading agreements."


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              128 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              May 16, 2004, Sunday

TELEVISION: DO I LOOK LIKE A GREEN-EYED MONSTER?;
 DANGEROUS PASSIONS BBC 1 THE WORLD'S GREATEST CONSPIRACY THEORIES

BYLINE: CHARLIE COURTAULD Misogynistic nonsense: Kelly Odell gets the
pseudo-scientific treatment in Dangerous Passions'

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 1037 words


Kelly Odell may be Britain's most jealous woman," we were told this week. Not by
the redtop papers, mind - by the BBC. Certainly, as seen on Dangerous Passions,
Kelly exhibited an at times violent degree of clinginess to her boyfriend: she
wouldn't let him watch Big Brother or Baywatch, or have his hair cut in a unisex
hairdressing salon. So aggressive were her rages that they've been barred from
most pubs in town. But it was hard to tell which of the hysterical scenes were
genuine, and which staged for the cameras. There's something unnervingly
misogynistic about these pseudo-scientific programmes. Women, in these
documentaries' vision, are emotionally unstable, prone to rage, flaky. There
were jealous men on the programme, but they were fairly incidental. It turned
out that their suspicions were true: the wives were having affairs. Primary
focus was on Kelly and on Val, a 61-year old who stalks her ex-lover and his
partner. With a female director of TV and channel controller, BBC 1 must feel
that it had inured itself to the accusation of tabloid sexism. The unnerving
signs are that it hasn't.

The film kept on citing scientific studies in evidence of its stating-
the-bleeding-obvious theories. "One third of all couples who go for counselling
have a jealousy problem," we learned. One hundred per cent of pseudo-scientific
documentaries on British TV are tosh.

For more pseudo science, you can't do better than Five. Or maybe that's just
what they want you to think. The World's Greatest Conspiracy Theories counted
down the 10 most internet-discussed whacko subjects. Even some of the
conspiracists were unconvinced by this nerd world methodology: "the internet is
truly a global village - but most of the people in the village are idiots," one
suggested.

At the outset, the programme rather sided with the green ink brigade: "Tonight,
discover a different truth about some of the most shocking secrets of recent
times." No, there isn't any such thing as a "different truth" about the moon
landings, Diana's death, crop circles and so on - only lies. The "official
version" may be less strange than the fiction, but that doesn't make it less
true. However many saddos may believe that Neil Armstrong was in Arizona rather
than on the moon, he wasn't. It's not a "different truth". It's balderdash. By
the programme's end, it seemed that even the producers were unconvinced by the
relentless tripe, and the voice-over veered into an admirably tongue-in-cheek
mode. But by then, most people had switched off. Or been abducted by aliens.

I try to make my TV reviews flow neatly from subject to subject. But I'm stumped
here. For the life of me I can't see the connection between monomaniac
conspiracy theorist fruitcakes and the UK Independence Party which made an
Election Broadcast this week. Perhaps those ever-vigilant libel lawyers are
putting me off. With housewives' choice Robert Kilroy- Silk now in their ranks,
one might have expected a toecurlingly smoothie production. But no. Robert was
nowhere to be seen, nor his usual slick production values. Instead we got a
Benny Hill soundtrack and a comedy German in lederhosen being slapped by a wet
fish. A man in a suit dug up carrots. Yellow captions like "EU transports live
horses for meat" flashed up on screen. Various UKIP talking heads implored us to
lend them their votes. I wouldn't lend them 5p. They told us that a vote for
them would make Britain like Norway. It was enough to make you pine for Robert.

Jealousy rears its head again for those life makeover programmes. Get a New Life
is the new effort to stoke the British viewers' envy for expat lifestyles in the
sun. Welsh couple Brian and Allyson decided to quit the valleys for some Spanish
sun. The programme (at one hour, too long by half) helped them to relocate and
then, after one month, gave them the choice of a return. Despite the fact that
the trial seemed to be going pear-shaped, they unsurprisingly opted to stay: one
month is not nearly enough to make a decision to jack in a dream - but that's
the time limit which the shooting schedule has imposed. When launching a new
series, TV producers usually try to kick off with one of the best programmes to
hook viewers. If this was the best of Get a New Life, then I'm not jealous of
its makers.

Talking of fiascos, Trouble at the Top (BBC2) looked at the Hoover free- flights
disaster of 1993. A successful promotion for flights to Europe was followed by
an offer of return tickets to the US. A child could have spotted the error in
the buy-one-get-two-free thinking. "Unbelievable" ran the ad strapline. Spot on.
pounds 600-worth of tickets was handed over for pounds 100-worth of goods. It
didn't add up, as the company's insurers spotted: "in any promotion where you're
giving away something greater than the value of the thing purchased it's
dangerous territory." Understatement. Hoover were left pounds 48m out of pocket,
and tried to wriggle out of honouring the deal.

One customer tried in vain to get his tickets, calling every 20 minutes for
three days: "You were put onto someone else, who put you on to someone else, who
put you on hold. Then the line went dead." Apparently blind to the impending
disaster, Hoover actually decided to extend the offer by an extra month. The
price tag ballooned. At this point Watchdog got interested, and decided to do
some undercover filming of Hoover's processing systems - with the result that an
entertaining programme about inept business promotions became an even more
entertaining one about nascent undercover consumer journalism. "I had imagined
that secret filming would be like James Bond," the Watchdog researcher
remembered. But then she was handed a huge suitcase with a hole cut out for the
lens. "The batteries keep on running out, the tapes always need changing. As a
result, I was going up and down to the loo as if I had some awful case of food
poisoning."

Schadenfreude is as joyful a TV emotion as envy, and thus the film of Hoover's
squirming was unqualified pleasure. Business programmes have undergone a
renaissance since Troubleshooter. Trouble at the Top is the enviable product.

c.courtauld@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              129 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  May 16, 2004

In my own corner

BYLINE: JENNY KNIGHT

SECTION: PROP; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 373 words


Boxing manager and sports consultant Frank Maloney, 50, is the UK Independence
Party's candidate for Mayor of London. The former manager of boxer Lennox Lewis,
he lives in Chislehurst, Kent, with his second wife Tracey and two children.

His autobiography, No Baloney, will be published in paperback in July.

When I was growing up in Peckham, South London, if you managed to get somewhere
in life you moved to Chislehurst. EastEnders move out to Essex but South
Londoners go to Kent.

I had three brothers and my parents rented a big Victorian house. We didn't feel
hard-up because everyone was the same. I had a paper round and I was a milk boy
so I had a bit of pocket money.

After that I moved around. I had a pub in Aldgate, East London. Then I moved to
Maidstone and to Stanford-le-Hope and Crayford. After my divorce I had a trendy
flat in Surbiton.

When I married Tracey we wanted something more permanent. Tracey is from Cardiff
and wasn't keen on Londoners. Now she's got to know them she's changed her mind,
so I bought a three-bedroom house in Chislehurst.

There's a lovely common, trees and a village feel.

Seven years ago, a very rundown five-bedroom house came up. I persuaded them to
take Pounds 145,000, which was a good price even though it needed work.

I've spent about Pounds 100,000 on it and it must be worth about Pounds
600,000.There's a nice bit of garden that backs on to a stream and fields. The
schools are good, which is important to me now I have two young daughters,
Sophie, nine, and Libby, a devil with an angel's face, who's three.

I wouldn't want to live further out from London. You can return on the train
from Charing Cross or in a black cab for 55 quid.

I wanted a large family house.

We're sociable and people are always coming round. I like the people in
Chislehurst.

A lot are ordinary, workingclass-like myself and there are some great
characters.

I can walk to the High Street where there are two Chinese restaurants.

I take the children to Cafe Rouge and for pubs I go to The Ramblers Rest or The
Imperial.

Once a month I go to the old fashioned barbers for an Pounds 8.50 haircut.

. Frank Maloney was talking to Jenny Knight.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              130 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 16, 2004

Comment: Pendennis: Silk's purse

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 31

LENGTH: 613 words


AS ROBERT Kilroy-Silk bids to become an MP for the UK Independence Party,
Pendennis recalls the time the unctuous one ran for mayor of London. The
ex-Labour MP's carefully crafted 'man of the people' image was dealt a fatal
blow when he confessed: 'I commute in a chauffeur-driven Jaguar. The last time I
took the Tube was two years ago.' When asked how much he paid for the ticket,
Kilroy-Silk admitted: 'I can't remember. Somebody else paid for it.'

* ACCOUNTS for Simon Fuller's company, 19 Entertainment, show the Spice Girls'
ex-manager, who dreamed up the Pop Idol format, trousered a whopping £2.5
million in the 12 months to 30 June last year. Even more eye-watering is that
Fuller's company notched up profits of £6.5m against £2.4m the previous year.
And this before the Spice Girls reunion. . .

*W ATCH out Soho House. Top chef Marco Pierre White, the brains behind the
exclusive Drones Club in London's Belgravia, is to roll out private members'
clubs bearing the Drones name worldwide. Pendennis's spy says Pierre White and
financier Andrew Regan have plans for clubs in New York, Paris, St Tropez. . .
and beyond. Admittedly, Regan has been the subject of some bad press after an
aborted attempt to buy the Co-op and Pierre White's coffers are not as deep as
they once were, but the venture could still be a success.

*MARTIN Smith, magazine editor for the Express group, is the subject of much ire
among employees for bagging the best freebies. Recently, Martin had laser
treatment on his eyes and enjoyed relaxing massage therapy. Scant compensation
for working for Desmond, though.

*P ENDENNIS has been re-appraising Barbara Amiel's contribution to political
discourse and applauds her 1982 speech to the Empire Club of Canada. 'So
involved with our pursuit of creature comforts. . . are we, that we dismiss the
Soviet threat,' Babs warns. Clearly, after the Berlin Wall fell, Amiel and
husband Conrad Black felt able to relax their guard against the dangerous
communist threat and enjoy those creature comforts, chiefly at shareholders'
expense in sunny Polynesia.

*APOLOGIES to former Health Secretary Alan Milburn. Contrary to our story last
week, Alan wasn't at the now infamous dinner held at the Cinnamon Club in which
his successor, John Reid, repeatedly called Evening Standard editor Veronica
Wadley 'Vanessa'. Loyal to his Geordie roots, Milburn was at home watching the
Newcastle United v Marseille footie match on TV.

*P ENDENNIS rings the Walnut Tree Inn in Wales, subject of last week's Ramsay's
Kitchen Nightmares . Have Gordon's words of wisdom - wash the mussels, paint the
walls white etc - transformed its fortunes? Sadly, no. Manager Francesco
Mattioli says since he followed the uber-chef's advice there has been no
increase in customers or profits. Sigh.

*PROSPECTIVE anti-sleaze MEP Martin Bell has received backing from an unexpected
quarter. Former Parliamentary Standards Commissioner Elizabeth Filkin, whose
dedication to her job annoyed many an MP, recently drove all the way to Bell's
campaign manager's house in Norfolk to pledge her support for the scourge of the
Hamiltons. Unfortunately Bell's attempts to clean up Brussels are unlikely to be
as entertaining as his attempt to clean up Tatton.

*C OMING soon to Sky One, a new three-part series entitled How Gay Are You?
Participants answering an extensive series of questions will be categorised as
'under-gay', 'over-gay' or 'just gay enough'. Apparently those in the latter
category can cook, understand women and use moisturiser. Good to see James
Murdoch has stamped his imprimatur on his inheritance.

pendennis@observer.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              131 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 16, 2004, Sunday

Stand up and be counted for Little England

BYLINE: Jasper Gerard

SECTION: Features; News Review 5

LENGTH: 1440 words


It was the strangest party political broadcast I have ever seen: the Benny Hill
theme is playing, a toff in black tie is seen digging up spuds, an Austrian
comes on in lederhosen and is slapped in the face by a fish. Then Robert Kilroy
Silk, the UK Independence party's new star, announces that the European Union's
fishing policy is "codswallop".

To his credit, as the film plays out in front of political journalists at the
launch of the UKIP's election campaign in Westminster, Kilroy-Silk looks as
bamboozled as the rest of us.

But then the sometime Labour MP and television presenter has found himself
mighty strange bedfellows since agreeing to fight the European elections for the
UKIP. At his official unveiling he was introduced by the kind of duffer found in
blazer and sensible slacks at a provincial Rotary Club, or driving to a National
Trust property with his good lady wife.

Sure, Kilroy-Silk has been short of work since being axed by the BBC from
Kilroy, his £600,000-a-year morning chitchat show (he had, you will recall,
branded Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb amputators and women repressors"). But
has it really come to this?

I am shaken from my reflections of pity for the old boy -61 -when I realise he
is denouncing me from the platform, jabbing his finger my way and snarling about
how I had referred to Kilroy viewers as "white trash" in my Sunday Times column.

He then goes on to lambast journalists and politicians who constitute the "lying
metropolitan elite" -an odd complaint from a man who later in our interview
names several cabinet ministers he counts as chums (for example, John Reid, the
health secretary).

He is a silky act with the potential to gain a following where mainstream
politicians fear to tread. Last week when it was announced on the BBC's Question
Time that Kilroy-Silk was to be a future panellist there were gasps of
excitement and, perhaps, horror. His presence on the Westminster platform made
the UKIP's leadership look sub-parish council, which is why he hints to me later
that he might launch a takeover of the party.

What, I ask, is an erstwhile socialist -once a self-styled next prime minister
but three -doing in a party with Rotary Club losers?

"It obviously doesn't fit me," he concedes. "You are absolutely right and if you
heard my wife Jan, who has very strong views, well it would make yours seem
pretty mild. But it is the issues that matter." To his credit, on the platform
he pledges to make the UKIP more inclusive, prompting baleful looks from the
exclusively white male party officials up there with him.

The offer to stand (for the East Midlands) came, he discloses, after a lunch
party with the Earl of Bradford, a prominent party supporter. It was agreed the
tanned one would be selected without the vulgarity of a selection meeting (an
imaginative solution for a party that moans the EU is undemocratic).

What, I ask, would a young Kilroy-Silk, graduate of the then radical London
School of Economics, have made of his lurch rightwards? "Why is right-wing a
term of abuse?" he demands. So he accepts the term? "No, labels are sloppy
journalism. In many ways Tony Blair is more right-wing than me. What's more
right-wing than sucking up to Bush? What's more right-wing than a home secretary
who takes children away from asylum seekers?"

But why is he opposing new Labour? As a moderate Labour MP, forced out by
Militant after 11 years in parliament in 1985, wasn't he Blairite before Blair?
"When as a young MP Tony Blair heard I was probably going (from the Commons), he
came and sat next to me on the benches and said, 'Without people like you in the
Labour party there is no hope for us'." Modestly he adds that he might not have
shown the courage Blair displayed early in his leadership. "I probably wouldn't
have had the guts to abolish clause 4 (which committed Labour to
nationalisation). I was probably too rooted in the party."

The Labour party he left sounds decidedly uncongenial. "We used to feel guilty
going to the theatre, let alone on a foreign holiday. Dennis Skinner used to
make a big thing about not having a passport. Some Labour MPs were also members
of the Communist party and others were almost fascists." He used to see his good
friend Bryan Gould, then a fellow Labour MP, at dinner parties but "we couldn't
let anybody know" that they'd been to anything so bourgeois.

For all its myriad faults, Blair's Labour is hardly like that. Kilroy-Silk,
despite his well-preserved good looks, is in some regards old-style Labour. This
is reflected in his hostility to Europe, which goes back 31 years to the UK's
Common Market entry.

Yet he owns a 100-acre estate in Spain. Has that not warmed his feelings towards
the Continent? "We like the Spanish, but don't always trust them," he offers.
"We socialise a lot in Spain with Spanish people. I like them, but I don't want
to be governed by them."

He and Jan see the profligacy of the EU every time they drive down to their
villa on a European-funded highway, he says. "They put in extra lights and signs
where they couldn't possibly be needed, just to use up all the money."

One of the paradoxes of those who accuse the EU of not being accountable is they
tend to also oppose giving the European parliament the power to hold
overspending bureaucrats to account.

"I think you are right," he concedes, before shifting the argument by saying
that with 25 members the EU will "implode". "When you impose from above, it
never works," he says, "whether it's Yugoslavia or the Soviet Union."

Despite Blair's difficulties, arguably we are witnessing Britain's greatest
European triumph. We have the enlarged EU we wanted, which means integration
can't go so deep. So why all the harrumphing from him? "This is an argument I'm
familiar with and agree with. But it still means that I'm going to be in a
federal state called Europe, with 70% of our laws coming from Brussels."

He insists his greatest supporters are farmers, driven out of business by
Brussels. But hasn't it been EU subsidies that have kept their snouts in the
trough for 20 years? "Not British farmers," he insists.

He wants Britain to withdraw from the EU, while still enjoying free trade with
Europe. But what if the other EU members refuse such a cosy deal? "I'd rather be
poor and independent than be rich and a slave to Brussels," he says.

He argues that Norway flourishes outside the EU, but even a country ruled by
John Prescott would do well swimming in all that country's oil.

For the son of a navy stoker from Birmingham, Kilroy-Silk has done pretty
swimmingly, too. A chauffeur hovers and he claims he is set for a (so far
secret) high-profile television return.

But isn't he embarrassed his wealth was made from trashy television debates
about love rats? "It was the BBC who insisted we did those, for the ratings," he
says.

"I would have done every programme on pensioners and the health service if I
could."

So does he consider his life a success? "No, not entirely, I didn't achieve all
I set out to." Like being prime minister? He smiles ruefully: "Given my
contemporaries -Jack Straw, Ann Taylor, John Cunningham, John Prescott -I would
have been surprised if I hadn't been in cabinet. But I'm still pretty happy."

He is remarkably unapologetic about the furore over his reflections on Arab
culture, telling me that when he took his grandson to watch prime minister's
questions, Commons policemen said "good to have you back". "Virtually everyone
comes up to me and says 'you were treated very badly by the BBC'," he says.

But weren't his remarks insensitive? "Remember the context," he says. "This is
in the middle of a war with British soldiers laying down their lives to liberate
people from a repressive Arab regime, and suddenly we are being told that people
in the Arab streets loathe and despise us."

As you may have guessed, other than Europe, Kilroy-Silk's big hate is
immigration.

Really, I suggest, you are just a little Englander, aren't you Robert? Far from
being annoyed, he agrees rather cheerfully. Perhaps he is the authentic voice of
real England: it is hard to tell, for stung by the Arab row he now chooses his
words on race very carefully.

Yet Kilroy-Silk clearly enjoys being back in the spotlight, free to express his,
well, eclectic opinions ("I'm all over the place") without worrying about BBC or
Labour commandants.

"I'm never going to stand on a political platform again that I don't support, as
I had to on unilateralism," he says. "I'm too old."

jasper.gerard@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Interview; Robert Kilroy Silk

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 16, 2004

MY WEEK BACK IN THE POLITICAL FRAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 541 words


SUNDAY MAY 9 At BBC TV Centre, White City, to be interviewed on Breakfast with
Frost about standing for the European Parliament as a candidate for the United
Kingdom Independence Party in the East Midlands.

The last time I was here was in January. Then it was to discuss what the BBC
intended to do after the Sunday Express column in which I had told the truth
about repressive Arab regimes.

This time, the smiling producer escorted me to a bustling Green Room, where
novelist Wilbur Smith and ex Tory MP Gyles Brandreth were busily reading the
newspapers.

After my interview with David, they all stood as I returned, shook my hand,
slapped my shoulder and announced, grinning: "You're going to win!"

MONDAY If it was strange to be back in the Television Centre, it felt even odder
to be canvassing for votes.

It's over 20 years since I last solicited political support.

After handing in nomination papers at Northampton Guild Hall, we toured the
market square. Within minutes, we were surrounded by the smiling faces of people
from all backgrounds, ages, colour, and creed.

TUESDAY Wayne Bontoft, of the Northampton Chronicle and Echo, writes: "The scene
resembled an American presidential tour."

If only we had the same resources! There are only a few, though very dedicated,
people to work this massive constituency.

That's why I'm trying to be everywhere at once - today it was Leicester,
Nottingham and Loughborough town centres, interspersed with dozens of press,
radio and TV interviews.

People cross the road to greet me. Asian taxi drivers stop, wind down the window
and proffer their hands. There is a movement here looking for leadership.

Maybe the old parties have had their day.

WEDNESDAY Launch of the national manifesto of UKIP at the Atrium restaurant in
Millbank. Before that, I sat in the Television Centre studios TV Centre again
and did a live interviews for local radio.

The launch itself went well. Interviews afterwards for BBC TV News, German TV,
The World At One, The Sunday Times, Sunday Herald. I lost count.

Then off to Teddington studios to say goodbye to the technical staff whose last
day it was working on Kilroy and its temporary, highly unsuccessful replacement,
Now You're Talking!

I felt sad that it ended like this after 16 years - all because some
politically-correct BBC executive panicked in the face of criticism by a small,
vociferous minority.

What a pity Michael Grade hadn't been chairman. He'd have steadied the ship.

THURSDAY Most of the day devoted to meetings and telephone conversations with
national and local party workers. Apparently, large donations of money are
coming in. The call centres are overwhelmed by offers of support and help.

Everyone in the party feels lifted, full of energy - a feeling emphasised by the
big and enthusiastic public meeting I spoke at in Buckinghamshire tonight.

FRIDAY I want to get out to meet the people but we have so much to organise,
especially as the East Midlands vote will be all postal.

We have a mountain to climb, without that handicap. That turns it into an
Everest.

But we are determined to reach the peak - and the journey so far has been
nothing less than exhilarating.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              133 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 16, 2004

MYSTERY GBP 55,000 BOOST FOR EU CANDIDATE'S CAMPAIGN; MILLIONAIRE'S GIFT FOR
KILROY

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Wayne Francis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  29

LENGTH: 430 words


A MYSTERY millionaire has boosted the Robert Kilroy-Silk political bandwagon
with a GBP 55,000 donation.

The funds were pledged as the former MP took to the streets to launch his
campaign to stand in the European elections for the UK Independence Party.

News of the financial injection was announced to volunteer workers at his
headquarters in West Bridgford, near Nottingham, as he went on a local
walkabout.

The axed BBC chatshow host has also revealed he is going back to the corporation
this week to appear on its flagship discussion programme, Question Time.

Polls conducted by the UKIP have revealed that the Sunday Express columnist is
the party's No 1 candidate.

Party chiefs anxious to capitalise on his personal popularity have hastily
scrapped their original plans for their second television broadcast so that
Kilroy-Silk, 61, can present it instead.

At his hotel HQ which is covered in banners and flags, Kilroy-Silk said: "It's
just great to be back at the sharp end, back in active politics.

"There is a lot of hard work ahead and we need more troops on the ground but I
am thoroughly enjoying it. Talking to real people about real issues is
wonderful." He was persuaded to return to active politics by his close friend,
the Earl of Bradford.

"I used to scrump apples on his mother's estate in Birmingham, " revealed
Kilroy-Silk.

HIs campaign manager, Dick Horsnell, said: "I didn't know him as a Labour MP but
he has lost none of his political skill. The crowds love him."

Kilroy-Silk was also pressing the flesh yesterday with visits to Melton Mowbray
in Leicestershire and Oakham in Rutland.

But he expects a mixed reception when he appears on a special Euro Question Time
in Sheffield on Thursday. "People love me or hate me, " he said. "But it won't
be boring."

It is not his first return to the BBC since he was booted off his daytime
chatshow Kilroy for offending the corporation's politically-correct bosses after
arguing against the barbarity of Arab states in his Sunday Express column.

But his invitation was greeted with a mixture of applause and jeers when host
David Dimbleby announced his guest appearance on the panel, alongside Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw.

The Question Time website revealed a broad reaction to the former TV presenter.
Phillip, from Accrington, Lancs, said: "This lout should never be allowed back
on our screens." But another viewer, Steve Fuller, from Hove, East Sussex, said:
"Kilroy-Silk should be allowed to express his views. That is what freedom of
speech is all about."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              134 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 15, 2004, Saturday

Merchant up for UKIP seat

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: NewsSpy Pg. 24

LENGTH: 123 words

I recently reported that Piers Merchant - the Tory MP who resigned in 1997
following allegations of an affair with a 17-year-old nightclub hostess - was
considering a return to politics with the UK Independence Party.

Now, Spy learns that he's heading UKIP's candidate list in the North-East region
at next month's European election.

"It's very much a homecoming for me," says Merchant. "I lived up here for 22
years, first as a journalist and then as an MP."

One man he may encounter on the campaign trail is UKIP's PR adviser, Max
Clifford, who helped bring down his political career seven years ago.

"I'm hoping Max can get up here and give me a hand," adds Merchant. "I'd be
extremely pleased to have him come and help me."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              135 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 15, 2004, Saturday

UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY GAINS LUSTRE FROM CELEBRITY ENDORSEMENTS

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT The former talk-show host
Robert Kilroy-Silk, top; the polar explorer Ranulph Fiennes, left; and the
former racing driver Stirling Moss, right, are UKIP celebrity supporters

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 737 words


WHILE CELEBRITIES are increasingly turning their backs on Tony Blair's once
popular Labour Government, another political party is gaining star appeal by the
day.

The United Kingdom Independence Party could be dubbed the UK Celebrity Party,
given the cast of familiar names offering their backing for June's elections.
Frank Maloney, the outspoken former boxing promoter, is the party's candidate
for London mayor. Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former talk- show host who was fired
after branding Arabs "suicide bombers, limb-amputators (and) women repressors",
is its Euro-Candidate in the West Midlands. And Sir Ranulph Fiennes, the
intrepid explorer more accustomed to trekking to the poles than the ballot box,
was this week revealed as a patron.

Its backers include Edward Fox, the actor, Sir Patrick Moore, the astronomer,
and Sir Stirling Moss, the former racing driver, while its fundraising drives
are held at the stately homes of a variety of dukes and duchesses, who want to
remove Britain from the European Union.

UKIP, which is hoping for its best ever showing at the polls in June, is not shy
about revealing its celebrity backers. No surprise when its publicity consultant
is Max Clifford, the PR guru and peddler of tabloid tales.

Yesterday the party launched its campaign for the local elections in Manchester
where it proposed replacing VAT and the council tax with a local sales tax.

Earlier this week the party launched its Euro election campaign at a
high-profile event fronted by Mr Kilroy-Silk who reiterated the party's aim of
withdrawing from the EU.

The party also screened its election broadcast which featured a thigh- slapping
Austrian in lederhosen being whacked in the face with a fish by a man in a
sou'wester. This, it said, was to illustrate that EU fishing policy is
"codswallop". Yesterday the party said the broadcast, which features the Benny
Hill theme tune, demonstrated that it had a sense of humour.

However, politicians would be foolish to treat UKIP as a joke. Backed by a
pounds 2m fighting fund provided by wealthy backers including Paul Sykes, the
Eurosceptic millionaire, it has the potential to make substantial gains in the
June elections. The party hopes to treble its current tally of three MEPs, gain
many more councillors and even a seat on the London Assembly.

The party, which was founded in 1993, is fielding more candidates than ever
before and has a full slate for both the Euro and the London elections. It is
also fighting 600 council seats and promises, if elected, to hold referenda in
local areas on any issue of importance, including major planning decisions.

Polls show the party is gaining rapidly on its competitors and has a showing of
around 12 per cent throughout Britain, compared to seven percent at last year's
Euro elections.

Yesterday, Mark Croucher, a party spokesman, attributed its increase in support
to "a significant increase in Euroscepticism".

The party is also trying to broaden its appeal beyond its traditional right-wing
Eurosceptic base to Labour voters who may also have strong reservations about
Europe. They want to capture the attention of trade unionists and other
left-wingers who felt comfortable with Labour's policies in 1983, when the party
campaigned on a manifesto of withdrawal from Europe.

"The only moderate democratic party which is genuinely Eurosceptic - as opposed
to the Tories - is the UKIP," Mr Croucher said. "There is this view that we are
somehow all recycled Tories but over 50 per cent of our membership is from the
left," he said.

But the party, which also has a strong nationalist element to its appeal, and
features the Union Jack heavily in its publicity material, will be fighting for
votes with the extreme-right BNP.

It rejects the suggestion that it is fighting on a similar platform to the BNP.
But UKIP has been playing up fears about immigration and, like the BNP,
capitalising on a "protest vote" against the mainstream parties.

In recent months the party has capitalised on a number of domestic problems
including concern among pensioners about the level of the council tax.

In the last Euro-elections the party gained three MEPs, in the South- west,
South-east and Eastern region. It hopes to double its MEPs in the South-west and
South-east - where there is a robust Eurosceptic vote - while making gains in
other parts of the country.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              136 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 14, 2004, Friday

KILROY-SILK'S TELEVISION COMPANY CUTS 65 EMPLOYEES

BYLINE: IAN BURRELL MEDIA EDITOR Robert Kilroy-Silk: Rant on BBC led to his
sacking

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 393 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK'S anti-Islamic rant in a newspaper column in January has led
to 65 members of his staff losing their jobs, the former Labour MP's television
company revealed yesterday.

The BBC dropped Mr Kilroy-Silk as a presenter amid the furore that followed his
comments that Arabs were "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and woman
repressors".

The Kilroy Television Company had a temporary reprieve when the BBC decided to
continue his chat show, but with the new presenters, Nicky Campbell and Nadia
Sawalha. But the BBC announced last week that the new version of the show, Now
You're Talking!, was being axed.

The Kilroy Television Company, which is based in Teddington, Middlesex, has no
other shows in production once Now You're Talking! finishes. Production of the
show ended this week and the last episode is to be shown next month.

Graham Walters, head of production at Kilroy Television, told Broadcast
magazine: "We are not in a position to offer them the 65 staff jobs. The
priority is to deal with this current series and then we will look at the
future."

Mr Kilroy-Silk has announced that he is planning to stand as a candidate for the
UK Independence Party in the European elections in June. When he announced in a
joint statement with the BBC that he would be stepping down as a presenter, Mr
Kilroy-Silk said that he would "continue to lead" the production company. "I
believe this is the right moment to leave the programme and concentrate my
energies in other directions," he said.

He acknowledged that his comments in a column for the Sunday Express had
embarrassed the BBC. "I continue to believe it is my right to express my views,
however uncomfortable they may be. However, I recognise the difficulties this
has caused the BBC, and I believe my decision is the right way to resolve the
situation."

The BBC controller of daytime television, Alison Sharman, announced last week
that she would not be recommissioning the programme. The BBC said the decision
had been taken because the morning chat-show format had run "for many years" and
the BBC wanted to introduce a new "mix of lifestyle, consumer and current
affairs programming".

Mr Campbell is to be consulted about other daytime television projects and Ms
Sawalha will continue to present shows such as City Hospital and Family
Exchange.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              137 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 14, 2004, Friday

KILROY-SILK'S ISLAMIC RANT LEADS TO 65 OF HIS EMPLOYEES LOSING THEIR JOBS

BYLINE: IAN BURRELL MEDIA EDITOR

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 391 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK'S anti-Islamic rant in a newspaper column in January has led
to 65 members of his staff losing their jobs, the former Labour MP's television
company revealed yesterday.

The BBC dropped Mr Kilroy-Silk as a presenter amid the furore that followed his
comments that Arabs were "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and woman
repressors".

The Kilroy Television Company had a temporary reprieve when the BBC decided to
continue his chat show, but with the new presenters, Nicky Campbell and Nadia
Sawalha. But the BBC announced last week that the new version of the show, Now
You're Talking!, was being axed.

The Kilroy Television Company, which is based in Teddington, Middlesex, has no
other shows in production once Now You're Talking! finishes. Production of the
show ended this week and the last episode is to be shown next month.

Graham Walters, head of production at Kilroy Television, told Broadcast
magazine: "We are not in a position to offer them the 65 staff jobs. The
priority is to deal with this current series and then we will look at the
future."

Mr Kilroy-Silk has announced that he is planning to stand as a candidate for the
UK Independence Party in the European elections in June. When he announced in a
joint statement with the BBC that he would be stepping down as a presenter, Mr
Kilroy-Silk said that he would "continue to lead" the production company. "This
is the right moment to leave the programme and concentrate my energies in other
directions," he said.

He acknowledged that his comments in a column for the Sunday Express had
embarrassed the BBC. "I continue to believe it is my right to express my views,
however uncomfortable they may be. However, I recognise the difficulties this
has caused the BBC, and I believe my decision is the right way to resolve the
situation."

The BBC controller of daytime television, Alison Sharman, announced last week
that she would not be recommissioning the programme. The BBC said the decision
had been taken because the morning chat-show format had run "for many years" and
the BBC wanted to introduce a new "mix of lifestyle, consumer and current
affairs programming".

Mr Campbell is to be consulted about other daytime television projects and Ms
Sawalha will continue to present shows such as City Hospital and Family
Exchange.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              138 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2004, Friday

Sceptics set for big gains in European elections

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Overseas news; 15

LENGTH: 749 words


POLITICAL parties hostile to the European Union are expected to make sweeping
gains in next month's European elections, potentially turning the European
Parliament into a hotbed of Euroscepticism.

Many of the new Eastern European member states have powerful Eurosceptic
movements and new parties hostile to the EU have formed in the older member
states. Even mainstream parties are now raising doubts about the Union.

Ben Crum, a senior fellow at the Centre for European Policy Studies, said: "In
some countries there was, some time ago, a feeling that European collaboration
was good in itself, but perhaps that was rather naive.

"Now there is more realism. Most mainstream parties tend to be pro-European, but
most have come to a point where it is not unconditional."

Jens-Peter Bonde, the Danish MEP who leads the Group for a Europe of Democracies
and Diversities, -an umbrella organisation for Eurosceptic parties -said: "It
will be a much more Eurocritical Parliament. The Eurocritical members of the
Parliament will double, giving them the swing vote. In many issues we have a
swing vote already, but we will have it in a lot more issues."

Eurosceptic parties appear strong in the Czech Republic and Poland and on the
rise in Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands. Public anger at EU enlargement
could affect polls in Germany and France.

A European parliamentary official said: "There is concern that it could make it
difficult to do business if so many members of the Parliament are opposed to the
EU."

European Commission opinion polls are now registering support for the EU at its
lowest ever, with only 48 per cent of the public thinking that membership is a
"good thing".

The ten new member states are even more Eurosceptic, with only 43 per cent
supporting membership.

President Klaus of the Czech Republic said on the eve of enlargement earlier
this month: "In a few days, our country will cease to exist as an independent
and sovereign nation. We must do everything we can so that our unique existence
over a thousand years will not crumble and be lost".

His party, the ODS, now has a commanding lead in the polls.

In Poland, the left-wing Eurosceptic populist Andrzej Lepper, leader of the Self
Defence party, commands 30 per cent in opinion polls on a platform that involves
quitting the EU unless his country can rewrite its terms of entry. It is
expected that most of Poland's MEPs will be Eurosceptic.

In Denmark the two main Eurosceptic parties are capturing about 25 per cent of
the votes.

In Sweden a new Eurosceptic party, June List, was formed by the former head of
the Swedish central bank, Lars Wohlin, who said recently: "We are saying we want
a commonwealth of Europe, rather than a united states of Europe.

"We believe in a common market for goods and services, but we don't feel it is
necessary to have European regulations for the labour market, social security
system and currency."

The Netherlands, one of the EU's six founding members and traditionally
Europhile, has become markedly more Eurosceptic, with even mainstream parties
sounding a cautious note.

Max van den Berg, the Dutch Labour Party's leading candidate, said recently that
the EU had become crazy.

Jules Maaten, the leader of the liberal VVD Party, is using the campaign slogan
"Europe with moderation".

Maurice de Hond, the Netherlands' top political pollster, said: "All the parties
are more Eurosceptic than before. The euro is a big part of it because it led to
big price increases.

"It is the first time that being in the EU has brought people problems in their
own life."

Resentment about the euro could also affect votes in Germany, where EU plans to
admit Turkey are causing voter anger.

In France there is resentment about the enlargement of the EU, which is seen to
have hurt French interests.

Heather Grabbe, of the Centre for European Reform, said: "There is a very lively
debate about the EU in most countries -and the European constitution has just
provoked further debate and questions about where the EU is going."

The UK Independence Party, which wants to pull Britain out of the EU, has just
signed up the high-profile former TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk.

There is also concern that the British National Party could get its first
members of the European Parliament, while the moderately Eurosceptic
Conservative Party is expected to do well at the Government's expense.

Letters, page 23


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              139 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 13, 2004, Thursday

Voters fed up with lying elite, says Kilroy-Silk

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; Politics: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 361 words

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk said yesterday that the United Kingdom Independence Party
would represent ordinary voters fed up with the "lying" metropolitan political
elite.

The former television presenter, a UKIP candidate in the European elections,
said all three mainstream parties had deceived the electorate about the European
Union.

The UKIP is committed to withdrawal from the EU and Kilroy-Silk said this is
what people outside the Westminster political classes wanted.

The former Labour MP said: "I like to think I was in touch with public opinion.
I knew there was great disenchantment with politicians.

"Over the last few days, as I have been campaigning on the streets, I have
discovered it's not disenchantment towards politicians - it's hostility. They
are fed up with being lied to. They are fed up with being patronised by the
metropolitan political elite."

Kilroy-Silk, who was appearing at the launch of the UKIP's European election
campaign, said the mainstream political parties had been lying to the public
ever since the referendum on EEC membership in 1975.

"We were told that it was just about cheap wine, better holidays and free trade,
and that our independence and sovereignty were not a problem. They were lying to
us then and they are lying to us now," said Kilroy-Silk, the UKIP's lead
candidate in the East Midlands.

"I want my grandchildren growing up in a country called Britain. I don't want
them living in a country called Europe."

The UKIP, which was founded in 1993, achieved a partial breakthrough at the last
European elections when it won three seats and seven per cent of the national
vote.

Nigel Farage, a UKIP MEP, said that the party's main achievement so far had been
to make discussion of EU withdrawal acceptable.

"It was only seven or eight years ago that, if you said at a smart dinner party
that Britain could survive quite well as an independent country outside of the
European Union, it was considered so horrific that you would never be invited
back," he said.

Roger Knapman, the party leader, said the party would win 10 or more seats this
time. If so, that would be 'a political earthquake", he added.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              140 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 13, 2004

POLL STAR KILROY'S WAR ON EUROPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 144 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk launched his political comeback bid yesterday by calling
politicians "liars".

The axed chat show king helped kick off the Euro election campaign for the
United Kingdom Independence Party.

The former host of telly show Kilroy - who used to be a Labour MP - is standing
as a candidate in the East Midlands for the anti-EU party at the poll on June
10.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said voters were "fed up" with the main parties at Westminster.

He said: "They are fed up with being lied to, they are fed up with being
patronised by the metropolitan elite.

"I want my grandchildren to grow up in a country called Britain.

"I don't want my grandchildren to grow up in a country called Europe."

His bid to become a Brussels MEP follows his axeing by the Beeb for
controversial comments about Arab states in his Sunday Express column.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              141 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 13, 2004, Thursday

Political elite lying to people on Europe, Kilroy-Silk says

BYLINE: Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 400 words


THE former television talk-show host Robert Kilroy-Silk denounced the
"metropolitan elite" who were lying to people about Europe at the launch
yesterday of the United Kingdom Independence Party's European election campaign.

In a Westminster restaurant frequented by politicians and political journalists,
the former Labour MP who is standing as an MEP said that Britain should leave
the European Union.

In an echo of the sentiments that lost him his daytime television show, he said:
"I spend a lot of time in Europe. I love the Spanish -I don't always trust them,
but I like them; they're exuberant, vibrant and all the rest. So are the
Italians, so are the Dutch, so are the Danes. But I don't want to be governed by
them. I want to be governed by my own people."

He said Tony Blair should not be putting Britain at the "heart of Europe" but
concentrating instead on the heart of Britain. He said voters were fed up with
political correctness and had been supportive after his dismissal from the BBC
for calling Arabs "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and women repressors". He
later apologised for the comment.

Roger Knapman, the UKIP leader, said the party was spending £2 million on its
campaign to increase its elected representatives from three MEPs. A UKIP
election broadcast last night featured a thigh-slapping Austrian in lederhosen
being hit in the face with a fish. A voiceover by Mr Kilroy-Silk said that EU
fishing policy was "codswallop".

Nigel Farage, one of the party's MEPs, was asked at the restaurant whether such
national stereotyping was justified. He said: "We still just about have a sense
of humour." The party did have a problem with some extremist infiltrators, he
said, but all activists had to sign a declaration that they had never been a
member of the far-Right British National Party. The UKIP's key pledges, apart
from leaving the EU, include a crackdown on crime and a "firm but fair"
immigration policy that would end "economic migration".

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who was approached about standing for the European Parliament
less than two months ago, refused to rule out either standing for the UKIP in
the general election or running for the party leadership.

Mr Kilroy-Silk will need to increase the party's vote in the East Midlands
region, where he heads the party list, from its 7.6 per cent share in 1999 if he
is to win office.


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              142 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 11, 2004, Tuesday

Ranulph Fiennes leads way for UKIP

BYLINE: By CHARLIE METHVEN

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 21

LENGTH: 239 words

With the death of the Duke of Devonshire last week, the UK Independence Party
lost its foremost patron. However, Spy learns that the party has already
recruited another heavyweight name to its letterhead - in the hardy shape of
explorer Sir Ranulph Fiennes.

"Sir Ranulph has agreed to be patron of our European election campaign," says
the Earl of Bradford, the aristocratic restaurateur who will be standing for the
UKIP in next month's elections. "Ranulph is respected by many for his tenacity
and is totally supportive of what we're doing. We're delighted to have him."

For his part, Fiennes - who has rarely got mixed up with politics before - is
raring to go. "Too much power is going to Brussels," he rasps. "I'm in line with
the UKIP's policy on the amount of power that should or shouldn't be
surrendered. I don't feel that any other party is going about it the right way."

But, like the Duke of Devonshire - who variously supported the Tories and SDP
before signing up to the UKIP - Fiennes insists that, in future elections, he
could switch parties.

"I approve of many things Tony Blair is doing, such as his international policy,
and I approve of what other parties are doing on other issues," he says. "For
the moment, my support is for the European elections."

However long his stay in the UKIP's ranks, Sir Ranulph will be in good company:
the party's other supporters include Edward Fox and Sir Stirling Moss.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              143 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 10, 2004

KILROY: QUIT EU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 114 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk yesterday urged Britain to quit the EU before it collapses.

The axed BBC talk show host said he was standing as a United Kingdom
Independence Party candidate in the European elections to help get the country
back from Brussels and "lying" politicians at Westminster.

He attacked the EU as bureaucratic, dictatorial and corrupt and said he wanted
to be governed by "my own people".

Former Labour MP Mr KilroySilk, 61, claimed the EU was going to be like the
Soviet Union, getting so big it would implode.

He said: "It is a question of do we come out now in a civilised way or whether
Europe actually disintegrates because of the pressures."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              144 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 10, 2004, Monday

LETTER: VOTING PATTERNS

BYLINE: DR RUPERT READ

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 105 words


Sir: Andrew Grice rightly points out ("Politicians, trust and treating voters as
adults", 8 May) that "the differences between the three main parties have
narrowed. They ARE virtually the same."

That is why between about one and five million of us will vote on June 10 for
the Greens, for the Socialists, or for the Celtic parties. It is also,
regrettably, why millions will be tempted to vote for UKIP or even the BNP - and
of course why tens of millions will be so disillusioned that they will not vote
at all.

Dr RUPERT READ

School of Economic and Social Studies

University of East Anglia

Norwich

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              145 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 9, 2004

KILROY'S MEP BID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 107 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk said he wants to speak up for the people of Britain who
believe their country has been "stolen" by Brussels, as he last night announced
his intention to return to politics.

The former MP and columnist, sacked earlier this year by the BBC, confirmed he
has agreed to stand in the European elections on June 10.

Mr Kilroy-Silk will fight to become an MEP for the East Midlands as the number
one candidate for the UK Independence Party.

"This campaign is about straight talking, " he said. "It's about telling the
truth. It's about standing up for our country. I want to get my country back
from Brussels."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              146 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              May 9, 2004, Sunday

KILROY-SILK: FIRST ARABS, NOW EUROPE'S BARBARIANS';
 PRESENTER FIRED BY THE BBC MOVES FURTHER TO THE RIGHT AS HE SIGNS UP

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR Robert Kilroy-Silk: would-be defender of
the British way of life PA

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 633 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk, the politician turned TV presenter who lost his daytime show
for insulting the Arab nations, has now joined a group of people who think that
continental Europe is ruled by "barbarians".

Mr Kilroy-Silk confirmed yesterday that he is running for the European
Parliament as an East Midlands candidate for the UK Independence Party (UKIP).

The former Labour MP, whose opinions have become more right-wing as he has grown
older, wants Britain to withdraw from the EU altogether, and to impose heavy
restrictions on immigration. He gives his reasons in a column in today's Sunday
Express.

"People feel they've had their country stolen from them by the politically
correct establishment in London who don't care what real people think," he said.
"I want to get our borders back from the shambles on immigration. I want to get
my country back from the sophisticated, lying, deceiving political class in
Westminster, who have lied to us about Europe."

The UKIP's publicist, Max Clifford, was confident yesterday that Mr Kilroy- Silk
will also endorse the anti-EU sentiments being circulated in leaflets produced
by his new party colleagues in the East Midlands. The tone of the leaflets has
shocked Labour Party canvassers, but Mr Clifford has said that they are good
publicity for the party and that he hopes that Mr Kilroy-Silk will give them his
personal backing.

One leaflet handed out in Derby, by the South Derbyshire branch of UKIP,
claimed: "The EU is nothing more than a devilish conspiracy to deliver a
quasi-communist-socialist-federal dream state."

The leaflets add that "it is inspired by envy, greed and self-serving ambition
that dictates if they can't beat us they will drag us down to their level
because they can't bear to see a free and democratic country like the UK doing
better than they are".

The same leaflet warns that "predators are at the gate" and that "no one and
nothing is safe from the barbarians in our midst". Mr Clifford said: "As PR for
the UK Independence Party I very much hope Kilroy-Silk is going to endorse those
thoughts.  The leaflets are absolutely right and they're good publicity."

But Philip Whitehead, Labour MEP for the East Midlands, said: "Does Kilroy
really want to be here peddling the paranoid views of his new friends? There is
now big money and faded glamour behind this stew of paranoia. Every Labour
supporter must realise that we have only the ballot to stop this wild talk ever
turning into political action."

Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, first came to prominence when he was elected Labour MP for
Ormskirk, Lancashire, in 1974. During a televised interview on his journey to
London to take up his seat, he forecast that he would be Prime Minister within
15 years.

More than 12 years later, after he had risen to be a junior opposition spokesman
on home affairs, he abruptly quit the Commons to take up his career as host of a
television chat show. That ended after he wrote a newspaper article describing
Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb amputators and women repressors".

Roger Knapman, the leader of the UKIP, said yesterday: "I greatly welcome Mr
Kilroy-Silk as a UK Independence Party candidate. He is hugely respected as a
journalist and broadcaster, and firm in his views, particularly with regard to
the retention of Britain's independence and sovereignty. I am sure he will fight
a vigorous campaign in the East Midlands."

Since being fired by the BBC, Mr Kilroy-Silk has been largely absent from the
nation's television screens, apart from a brief, but high-profile, visit to the
corporation last month as a guest on BBC2's Have I Got News For You.

This weekend, the would-be defender of the British way of life was keeping a low
profile - in Spain, where he has a second home.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              147 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 9, 2004

Kilroy Silk continues his journey across political map

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 302 words


HIS HAS been an extraordinary career, from promising Labour MP to glossy chat
show host eventually brought down by some inflammatory remarks about Arabs. Now
Robert Kilroy-Silk is to attempt a political comeback - for the hard right UK
Independence Party.

His decision to stand for election to the European Parliament next month - for a
party that advocates withdrawal from Europe, locking up asylum seekers and
slashing crime to pre-Fifties levels - may raise eyebrows.

But the Independence party's commitment to 'freedom from political correctness'
could well appeal to a man who lost his BBC show for describing Arab nations as
'suicide bombers, limb amputators and women repressors' in an article for the
Sunday Express.

Capturing Kilroy-Silk is a publicity coup for the party, whose previous
best-known martyr to political correctness was a 78-year-old activist from
Liverpool charged with racially aggravated criminal damage after putting up a
party poster on the single currency and writing alongside it 'Don't forget the
1945 war'.

George Staunton, who subsequently had the charge dropped, explained that he was
not racist but had been to a school 'where they were not scared to talk about
the empire and the colonies'. Kilroy-Silk, who is thought to have joined the
party in the last couple of months, should present a rather more sophisticated
argument.

Elected Labour MP for Ormskirk in 1974, he reached the frontbench before leaving
parliament in 1986. His Kilroy chat show subsequently became a long-running hit,
but was axed by the BBC following the row over the Sunday Express article.

Party leader Roger Knapman yesterday announced Kilroy-Silk's candidacy, adding
he would fight a 'vigorous campaign' for the party. The new recruit will stand
in the east Midlands.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              148 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 9, 2004, Sunday

KILROY'S EU BID

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 56 words


AXED talk show host Robert Kilroy-Silk has confirmed he will stand as a Euro MP
for the UK Independence Party in next month's elections.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, right, who is in Spain on business, was a Labour MP from 1974
until 1986.

The BBC axed his show after a controversial newspaper article in which he
attacked Arab nations.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              149 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 9, 2004, Sunday

AXED KILROY'S NEW PARTY

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 88 words


AXED talk show host Robert Kilroy-Silk has confirmed he will stand for the UK
Independence Party in next month's Euro elections.

The 61-year-old presenter lost his BBC job after 17 years in January following a
controversial newspaper article in which he attacked Arabs.

He now hopes to resurrect his political career after being a Labour MP from 1974
until 1986.

Speaking ahead of the June 10 poll, UKIP leader Robert Knapman said: "He is
hugely respected and I'm sure he will fight a vigorous campaign."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              150 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 9, 2004

KILROY: I'LL GIVE BRITAIN ITS VOICE BACK

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 733 words


ROBERT KilroySilk said last night that he wants to speak up for the people of
Britain who believe their country has been "stolen" by Brussels, as he confirmed
his intention to return to politics.

Speaking exclusively to the Sunday Express, the former MP and columnist, sacked
earlier this year by the BBC, announced that he has agreed to stand in the
European elections on June 10.

He will fight to become a Member of the European Parliament for the eastern
region as the number one candidate for the UK Independence Party.

Private polls conducted by UKIP have already shown that his personal popularity
will boost their vote by 200 per cent, giving him enough votes to get elected.

Robert, who was a Labour MP before starting his recordbreaking TV career, has
been inundated with requests from the public that he should return to politics
ever since he was booted out for offending the BBC's politically correct bosses
after pointing out the barbarity of Arab states.

He now plans to crusade against corruption, inefficiency and incompetence in
Brussels.

"This campaign is about straight talking, " he said. "It's about telling the
truth. It's about standing up for our country. I want to get my country back
from Brussels.

"People feel they've had their country stolen from them by the politically
correct establishment in London who make decisions but don't care what real
people think.

"Decent people who read the Sunday Express are told that being in Europe is
something we've got to do. We're being patronised. We're told it is good for us.
We are told, 'Shut up and behave yourselves'.

"People have to make their minds up. Do they want to be governed from Brussels
by people we don't know, who we don't properly elect, who we can't hold
accountable and responsible and who we can't get rid of?"

Robert agreed to stand after a conversation with a close friend, the Earl of
Bradford, who is also a UKIP candidate on June 10.

He said he would only go ahead if other UKIP candidates were "100 per cent
happy" to stand aside. But "they assured me both nationally and regionally that
there was huge support".

Robert went on: "I got sacked by the BBC in January and for the first time since
I resigned as a member of Parliament in 1986 I'm free to express my political
views publicly.

"I was against joining Europe from the very beginning. When I was a Member of
Parliament in 1975 I advised my constituents to vote No against staying in the
EU.

"I've always wanted to be part of Europe, to trade with Europe.

I go on holiday there, I've got a house there, but I don't want to be governed
by them. I want to be governed by my own people.

It is the issue I have always felt strongest about."

Robert said he wants to highlight the "the inefficiencies, the corruption, the
bureaucracy, the way the whole thing is out of touch with what people in this
country want", as well as UKIP's policy of withdrawing from the EU.

He added: "I want to get our borders back from the shambles on immigration. I
want to be able to control who comes here.

"I want to get my country back from the sophisticated, lying, deceiving
political class in Westminster, who have lied to us about Europe, who wouldn't
have given us a chance to have a referendum on the constitution had there not
been public outcry about their arrogance.

"I want to say no to the constitution. I don't want to live in a federal state.
I want my grandchildren to live in a country called Great Britain, not a country
called Europe."

HE said that he did not want to be governed by a European Parliament or a
European president. "I want our foreign and defence policy to be determined by
us.

Europe wasn't on our side in the Falklands. Our allies were the Americans.

"The French tried to undermine Nato in the Balkans and again in this latest
conflict. We have far more in common with the Americans than we do with Europe."

He added: "If it's Rightwing to want to be governed by our own parliament and be
in control of our own country and be able to tell the truth, then Right-wing is
a badge of honour."

His says that his anger at Europe goes back three decades. "We were sold this on
the notion that it was going to be cheap wine.

"We were lied to by the political establishment in 1975. We have been lied to
ever since.

We have got to stop the lying."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              151 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 9, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; KILROY IS RIGHT FOR EUROPE

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 161 words


IT IS invigorating to see Robert Kilroy-Silk, a passionate democrat, back on the
hustings. He is just the sort of politician we like - someone who truly wants to
stand up for the people.

By standing in this June's European elections, the distinguished Mr Kilroy-Silk
will do much to increase the electorate's interest in the European Parliament.

Currently, there is a dangerous amount of apathy about this important but deeply
flawed institution, beset by corruption and bureaucracy. Most of us would
struggle to name more than a handful of MEPs. Indeed, just 18 per cent of us are
expected to vote in the elections.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's presence may just increase the turnout.

This newspaper does not support his chosen party, the UK Independence Party. But
we are sure that, if elected, Mr Kilroy-Silk would do much to draw attention to
all that is wrong with the European Parliament.

It desperately needs more men and women of his calibre.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              152 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 9, 2004

LEADER; IT WOULD DRIVE YOU MAD - NEW LABOUR IS ONLY FOR THE WEALTHY

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 537 words


SO NOW it is official. The Government is out to wage war on working people, the
people of Britain, the motorist. The excitable blabbermouth minister for
transport, Kim Howells, has made it abundantly clear he wants to increase the
cost of driving a car up to the point where only a few people will be able to
afford it.

The best way to get people out of cars and into public transport is, he claims,
"to try to tax people out of their cars in the same way the authorities have
tried to tax people off cigarettes".

So there you have it. We know clearly whose side New Labour is on. It is for the
rich. It is openly and aggressively on the side of the wealthy. Indeed, not only
does it favour the well-off but it is also determined to penalise the poor and
less fortunate.

After all, the rich won't be put off using their luxury cars by having to pay a
few more pounds for their petrol. It will not stop them stepping into their
Bentleys, Mercedes and BMWs. They will grin and bear it.

They will get by.

Indeed, they will probably support new taxes. They will be applauding Kim
Howells.

That's fine for them, very civilised. But what about the rest of the population?

Doesn't New Labour care about them any more?

Does the former miner, the man of the people, feel comfortable suggesting that
we drive the nurse, the schoolteacher, the factory worker, the care assistant,
the police officer and all the rest off the road?

Does he really believe that it is acceptable, fair, for young mothers to be
unable to take their children to school by car and to have to carry all the
supermarket bags on the buses while a no more deserving but wealthy woman
swishes past them on the way to the hairdressers? Where's the justice in that?

It wouldn't be so bad if there were an efficient transport system available but
there isn't.

Kim Howells is a fool. There is no comparison between cars and cigarettes. The
former is a useful tool that has liberated people, and especially women. The
latter is, we know, a killer.

Once again New Labour has come up with an offthe-cuff and barmy idea that shows
it to be out of touch with real people.

It is time, don't you think, for the 35 million car licence holders to kick them
into touch?

DO YOU want a good reason to vote for the United Kingdom Independence Party -
for which I will be standing as a candidate on June 10? The United Kingdom
Independence Party is the only one to promise to ensure that the value of your
main house, your home, will not be counted towards any inheritance tax that your
childrenor grandchildren will have to pay.

Taxing your house when you die has always seemed unfair and I have always been
surprised that none of the other political parties has seen fit to make the same
pledge - especially as the rise in house prices means many ordinary hardworking
people now own houses that would incur death duty.

Most people work hard all their lives to pay off the mortgage on their homes.

They've already paid tax on the income used to make the payments. They now want
to be able to give their homes to their children or grandchildren and resent the
taxman taking a slice. That's not an unreasonable aspiration.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              153 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 9, 2004

ROBERT KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 190 words


DO YOU want a good reason to vote for the United Kingdom Independence Party -
for which I will be standing as a candidate in the East Midlands on June 10?

Right, then I'll give y ou a very good one that has nothing to do with the
European Union.

The United Kingdom Independence Party is the only one to promise to ensure that
the value of your main house, your home, will not be counted towards any
inheritance tax that your children or grandchildren w ill have to pay.

Taxing your house w hen you die has always seemed to me to be unfair and I have
always been surprised that none of the other political parties has seen fit to
make the same pledge - especially as the rise in house prices, and particularly
in the south, means that many ordinary hard-working people now own houses that
would incur death duty.

Most people work hard all their lives to pay off the mortgage on their homes.

They've already paid tax on the income used to make the payments. They now want
to be able to give their homes to their children or grandchildren and resent the
taxman taking a slice. That's not an unreasonable aspiration.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              154 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 9, 2004

CALL TO WIN BACK OUR COUNTRY; KILROY TO FIGHT FOR BRITAIN'S FREEDOM IN EURO
-ELECTIONS

BYLINE: By Tm Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 529 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk said he w ants to speak up for the people of Britain who
believe their country has been "stolen" by Brussels, as he last night announced
his intention to return to politics.

Speaking exclusively to the Sunday Express, the former MP and columnist, sacked
earlier this y ear by the BBC, confirmed he has agreed to stand in the European
elections on June 10.

Mr Kilroy-Silk will fight to become an MEP for Eastern England as the No 1
candidate for the UK Independence Party.

Private polls conducted by UKIP have already shown that his personal popularity
will boost their v ote by 200 per cent, giving him enough votes to get elected.

Robert, who was a Labour MP before starting his record-breaking TV career, has
been inundated with requests from the public that he return to politics ever
since he was booted out for offending the politically correct BBC by
highlighting the barbarity of Arab states.

He now plans to crusade against corruption, inefficiency and incompetence in
Brussels.

"This campaign is about straight talking, " he said. "It's about telling the
truth. It's about standing up for our country. I want to get my country back
from Brussels.

"People feel they've had their country stolen from them by the politically
correct establishment in London who make decisions but don't care what real
people think.

"Decent people who read the Sunday Express are told that being in Europe is
something we've got to do. We're being patronised.

We're told it is good for us. We are told: 'Shut up and behave yourselves'.

"People have to make their minds up. Do they want to be governed from Brussels
by people we don't know, who we don't properly elect, who we can't hold
accountable and responsible and who we can't get rid of?"

Robert added: "I was against joining Europe from the very beginning. When I was
a Member of Parliament, in 1975, I advised my constituents to vote No against
staying in the EU.

"I've always wanted to be part of Europe, to trade with Europe. I go on holiday
there, but I don't want to be governed by them."

Robert said he wants to highlight "the inefficiencies, the corruption, the
bureaucracy, the way the whole thing is out of touch with what people in this
country want", as well as UKIP's policy of withdrawing from the EU.

He added: "I want to get our borders back from the shambles on immigration. I
want to be able to control who comes here.

"I want to say no to the constitution. I don't want to live in a federal state.
I want my grandchildren to live in a country called Great Britain, not a country
called Europe.

"I want to be on really good terms with Europe, to trade with them. But that's
all I want."

Robert says he expects to be attacked and branded a rightwinger for his decision
to stand.

"They smear you with being right wing. Why is it right-wing not to want to be in
Europe?" he asked.

His anger at Europe goes back three decades. "We were sold this on the notion
that it was going to be cheap wine, " he said. "We were lied to by the political
establishment in 1975.

"We've been lied to ever since.

We've got to stop the lying."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              155 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 7, 2004, Friday

ROUTLEDGE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 52 words


SMARMY TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk walked out on the Labour Party because he
was terrified of socialists. Not that you find too many of those in New Labour.

RK-S is trying to stage his political comeback as a Euro MP for the far-Right UK
Independence Party. Now we see him in his true colours.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              156 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 7, 2004, Friday

Welcome back to the part-time Tory

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Features; 8

LENGTH: 141 words


IVAN MASSOW, left, who announced last month that he was standing as an
Independent for London mayor, rejoined the Tories yesterday.

Massow, the pink millionaire, had worshipped at the altar of Margaret Thatcher
in the Tories' glory days. Before the last election, however, he defected to
Labour, arm in arm with Mo Mowlam, and gloried in the publicity that
followed...for 48 hours, from which point he was completely ignored by the
Labour leadership.

Massow, a keen huntsman who confessed on the radio that his wealthy partner had
left him for a hairdresser, quit the Tories in 2000 in protest at its support
for Section 28, which was introduced by, erm, Margaret Thatcher.

How long will he stay with the Tories this time? I have heard that Plaid Cymru
and the United Kingdom Independence Party are said to be recruiting.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 6, 2004

Not off the hook yet

BYLINE: IAN SMITH

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1090 words


EUROPEAN Parliament chiefs were at the centre of a 'whitewash' row last night
after they wrongly issued a statement clearing senior Scots Labour MEP David
Martin of expenses fraud.

The office of European Parliament President Pat Cox issued a statement
exonerating Mr Martin over allegations he falsely claimed hundreds of thousands
of pounds of expenses.

But hours later it emerged the investigation was not closed and the statement
had not been authorised by the parliament's finance director, Roger Vanhaeren,
who is running the inquiry.

The chaos left Labour Party bosses distancing themselves from suggestions of a
'whitewash'.

The confusion came as Mr Martin was threatened with more damaging allegations
about his expenses from members of his estranged wife's family, who made the
original accusations.

Last night, Labour general secretary Matt Carter, who passed the allegations on
to the European Parliament, was forced to issue an embarrassing statement
distancing the party from the claims that its most senior Scottish MEP had been
cleared.

He said: 'The investigating officer, Roger Vanhaeren, this evening told the
Labour Party the investigation into Mr Martin's parliamentary allowances has, in
fact, not concluded. Mr Vanhaeren said he was currently awaiting fresh evidence
which he intends to review before coming to any conclusion.' That was at odds
with the statement from Mr Cox's office which said the investigation had
concluded and the MEP had been cleared.

The statement was rushed out as the European Parliament had its last day's
sitting prior to the elections of June 10.

It said: 'The documentary evidence submitted so far is insufficient to
contradict the annual financial statements provided to the inquiry by David
Martin MEP's chartered accountant, which confirmed that the allowances paid to
him had been in conformity with Parliament's rules. No evidence of wrongdoing
has thus been substantiated.

'Should any additional evidence be produced which is not yet the case it would
be again thoroughly examined.' Mr Cox, adding his personal endorsement to the
statement, said: ' The inquiry has been evidence-led and forensically followed
through, while ensuring the full respect of due process and the principles of
natural justice. Any further inquiries would be guided by the same principle.'
Last night, senior Labour figures were furious over the confusion, which now
means the Martin affair could overshadow the launch of the party's Euroelection
campaign next week.

A Labour source said: 'This has left us in a terrible position.

We have been forced to distance ourselves so there can be no accusations of a
whitewash.' SNP European election candidate Alyn Smith, who has already asked
Lothian and Borders Police to investigate the allegations, said: ' This is a
murky, murky tale, which is why a credible authority like Lothian and Borders
Police should investigate it.

'This all sounds very dodgy to me the whole thing just stinks.' The
investigation of Mr Martin's expenses was sparked by papers handed over to the
Labour Party by his brother-inlaw Billy Cook, which claimed to show the MEP had
been wrongly benefiting from expenses amounting to Pounds 2,000 a month for
years.

Mr Martin is in the process of an intensely bitter divorce from his wife of 25
years, Margaret, 46, after leaving her and starting a relationship with former
TV reporter Lorraine Davidson, 37, by whom he now has a baby son.

It is understood Mr Cook was enraged by the way his sister had been treated.

Last night, a source close to Mr Cook said there were more expenses allegations
to come against Mr Martin. The source said: 'People have been found not guilty
in Parliament before and I don't expect this to be the end of the affair.

'I think it will run and run. If you had information on someone, would you show
your full hand?

' This is not about getting revenge for the divorce. People will find out the
truth eventually.' Mr Martin could not be contacted last night. Before the truth
emerged, he had welcomed the news that he had been cleared.

He added: 'I said at the outset that these allegations were malicious. I
therefore welcome the outcome of the inquiry, which has today exonerated me.'

A spokesman for Mr Martin said the MEP was ' not surprised' at the threat of
more allegations, adding: 'It does seem to be a personal vendetta, with
allegations timed to damage David politically.

'The investigation has cleared him on the evidence so far and he is confident it
would do the same again.' Until the allegations against Mr Martin emerged, he
was favourite to become the European Parliament's next president.

i.smith@dailymail.co.uk

Euro whistleblower accused of parliamentary expenses 'fiddle'

AN MEP responsible for helping uncover fraud among his colleagues has himself
been accused of an expenses 'fiddle'.

Tory Bashir Khanbhai stated he regularly travelled from Heathrow airport to a
fictitious address in Norfolk instead of his home in Kent.

The European Parliament pays members 35p a mile, giving Mr Khanbhai an extra
Pounds 64.40 for the additional 184 miles.

A weekly claim would amount to Pounds 16,744 over the course of a five year term
in the Parliament.

Mr Khanbhai is on the budgetary control committee, which investigates fraud.

His website lists his political interests as 'cracking down on fraud in EU
institutions'.

He has written to party chiefs explaining why he gave his address as 57
Peninsula Cottages, Staitheway Road, Wroxham the road only has 56 houses when he
lives in Sevenoaks.

The Eastern region MEP wrote: 'I decided to request my friend, who lives in
Wroxham, if they would allow me use of their office for my correspondence for
Norfolk and permit me to stay in one cottage.

'They agreed and allocated me No 57 Peninsula Cottages as a postal address for
my mail.

'They have 56 cottages and the number 57 would ensure no staff would drop my
mail in error through any of their cottage letterboxes.' Mr Khanbhai, 58, said
of the address: 'As a building it does not exist, but it does for postal
reasons.' Conservative Central Office last night said Mr Khanbhai's expenses
claim was an ' unintentional mistake'.

AXED TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk is to stand as a candidate for the UK
Independence Party in next month's European elections. Sources indicated he
would stand for the East Midlands region. A formal announcement will be made at
the weekend.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              158 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 6, 2004

EURO POLL SURPRISE FOR KILROY

BYLINE: by MACER HALL, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 135 words


AXED chat show king Robert Kilroy-Silk has been give the chance of a shock
return to politics.

The former host of daytime show Kilroy - sacked by the BBC for controversial
comments about Arabs - has been invited to stand for the United Kingdom
Independence Party in next month's Euro elections.

Chiefs of the anti-EU party - which has three MEPs - believe the tanned smoothie
would make an excellent high-profile candidate.

And he has political experience after sitting as a Labour MP from 1974 until
1986, before making the break into TV.

His popular chat show ran for years before being axed by the BBC after his
Sunday Express newspaper column referred to Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb
amputators and women repressors".

Mr Kilroy-Silk, 61, was unavailable for comment last night.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              159 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 6, 2004

EURO VOTE FOR KILROY?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 107 words


SUNDAY Express columnist Robert Kilroy-Silk has been approached by the UK
Independence Party to become a candidate for the European elections.

Earlier this year Mr Kilroy-Silk, 61, a former Labour MP, was axed from his BBC
TV show for criticising Arab nations. He often warns against the prospect of a
European super state and UKIP sources believe he will agree to stand for the
East Midlands on June 10.

One long-serving Labour MP last night admitted: "Signing Robert would be a big
coup for UKIP. He has the profile, the experience and the popularity to win the
seat." Mr Kilroy-Silk was unavailable for comment last night.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              160 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 6, 2004, Thursday

OBITUARY: THE DUKE OF DEVONSHIRE;
 RESCUER OF CHATSWORTH AND REVIVER OF THE FAMILY TRADITION OF

BYLINE: NICOLAS BARKER Untrammelled by conventions: the Duke and Duchess, born
Deborah Mitford Raymonds Picture Agency; The best of her sex I have ever
ridden': the Duke in 1998 with a portrait by Susan Crawford of his mare Park
Top, with Lester Piggott in the saddle David Ashdown

SECTION: First Edition; OBITUARIES; Pg. 40,41

LENGTH: 2951 words


"I AM a very rich duke, a most agreeable thing to be, even in these days," said
the hero in Nancy Mitford's 1945 novel The Pursuit of Love. Her brother-in-law
Andrew Cavendish, when he succeeded five years later as 11th Duke of Devonshire,
had every reason to disagree.

Born a second son on the second day of 1920, he grew up with no expectation of
becoming a duke. His father's premature death in 1950 left him with huge death
duties to pay, and the extra liability of palatial Chatsworth, at a time when
smaller houses were going down like ninepins. How he overcame all these
difficulties, making Chatsworth habitable and a source of widespread enjoyment,
discovering in the process new ways of helping all manner of people and
institutions, as well as reviving the family tradition of enlightened patronage,
is one of the success stories of our time.

The Cavendish family roots were in Suffolk, but "Bess of Hardwick", founder of
the dynasty, was born in Derbyshire, in 1518. Successive marriages, the second
to Sir William Cavendish, enabled her to expand her property. Quarrels with her
fourth husband, the Earl of Shrewsbury, led her to leave the house she had built
at Chatsworth, and build another, even larger, at Hardwick itself. Her sons
built on this foundation, the second becoming father of the first Duke of
Newcastle, the first buying back Chatsworth and created Earl of Devonshire in
1618 (the title came not from any territorial connection, but because it had
just become vacant by the death without issue of the previous holder).

They were royalists in the Civil War, when the family wealth was diminished -
save in the library, watched over by Thomas Hobbes, the philosopher. The fourth
Earl, of imperious disposition, fell out with the Stuarts and retreated to
Chatsworth, which he rebuilt and enlarged. He supported William III, who
elevated him to be the first Duke of Devonshire. His son, Steward of the
Household to Queen Anne and later to George I, was the first great virtuoso of
the family, and built up the collection of old master drawings at Chatsworth. He
was the first, too, to succeed on the Turf, buying Flying Childers, "the
fleetest horse that ever ran at Newmarket".

The second Duke's son and grandson were both Lord-Lieutenants of Ireland, and
between them remodelled the grounds at Chatsworth, the fourth Duke commissioning
James Paine to build the new stables. By his marriage to the only daughter of
the great Earl of Burlington, architect and connoisseur, more came to
Chatsworth, from the Boyle Irish estates to the drawings of Inigo Jones. His
son, husband of the famous Georgiana Spencer, was himself a notable figure.
Their only son, the sixth Duke, the greatest collector of all, made Chatsworth
what it is today.

"He appears to be disposed to spend a great deal of money," said the family
auditor to his father. "So much the better," was the memorable reply. "He will
have a great deal of money to spend." He did, enlarging and beautifying
Chatsworth with the help of Jeffry Wyatville and Joseph Paxton. He bought
wonderful books, marble and antiquities, including a fifth-century bronze head
of Apollo, commissioned sculpture from Canova, and for him Paxton built the
splendid conservatory at Chatsworth, forerunner of the Crystal Palace.

But he remained the "Bachelor Duke": dying childless in 1858, he was succeeded
by a cousin who had fortunately inherited much himself, including the wealth and
books of the scientist Henry Cavendish and the Compton family estates on the
South Coast. He himself invested in industry, built up Eastbourne and gave
Cambridge the Cavendish Laboratory. His son reverted to politics (he was the
only person to refuse the premiership three times) and horse-racing. The ninth
Duke became Governor-General of Canada during the First World War, when
Chatsworth was inevitably neglected. All the plants in Paxton's conservatory
died and it had to be pulled down, but gradually life returned to normal.

So Lord Andrew Cavendish grew up between the wars, when the hereditary peerage
had not become a political plaything and leisure was a way of life, not a
profession. Devonshire House in London had gone, pulled down to make way for a
motor showroom, and so had Chiswick House (now in the care of English Heritage),
but the family still owned four other great houses besides Chatsworth and
Hardwick. The footmen still wore full livery (lemon coat, dark blue breeches and
white stocking) if there were more than six to dinner.

It was 1938 when his grandfather died, aged 69. Andrew's father was Under-
Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs and abroad, and Andrew was about to
leave Eton for Trinity College, Cambridge. He had taken neither very seriously.
His father worried about this, as about his occasional flutters on and off the
Turf. But an old friend said to him, "Surely you wouldn't like your son to get
good reports?", and Newmarket turned youthful diversion into an abiding passion.
Neither overcame an earlier, deeper and even more long-lasting love of books and
reading. A year later his elder brother William, now Marquess of Hartington,
came of age, with a series of parties - the last at Chatsworth in August 1939.
Then came the war and goodbye to all that.

Both brothers went into the Coldstream Guards, to be "sorted out" like many
others by drill, boots and sergeant-majors. Caterham was varied by escape to
London, where Andrew would take Deborah Mitford, the youngest of the six
daughters of Lord Redesdale, out to dinner; in April 1941 they married. Then
came posting abroad, via North Africa to Italy, where he first saw action;
unable to sleep the night before, he read Nigel Balchin's The Small Back Room,
just out, from cover to cover. In the fierce fighting north of Rome in July
1944, he was awarded the MC. His company captured a hill south of Strada, and
held it despite being cut off on all sides. The citation records his "endless
cheerfulness, energy and disregard of danger"; he himself said, "I got it for
being cheerful", a characteristic self-depreciation.

That same spring his elder brother married Kathleen Kennedy, sister of the
future President of the United States; only four months later he was killed in
action in France. This was a crushing blow, still remembered with pain almost 60
years later. Used, by gentle warning from his father, to accept the minor, less
demanding role of a younger son, he now found himself pitchforked into new
responsibility. When he left the Army, he dutifully stood in the Conservative
interest for the neighbouring seat of Chesterfield in 1945 and again in 1950.

Adjusting to post-war austerity and high taxation was another problem. His
father, well advised like his forebears by Currey & Co, made over the estate,
the gift dependent on his living for five years. In November 1950, 14 weeks
short of this term, he died, aged only 55.

His estate was then valued at pounds 5.9m, and at the current rate of 80 per
cent death duties came out at pounds 4.72m. It was clear that huge economies
would have to be made; the question was how to make them without diminishing the
sources of revenue needed to maintain what was left. The 11th Duke and his
Duchess counted their assets: they were both 30, young, energetic and,
untrammelled by conventions now out of date, were prepared to do something
different. Time was on their side, and Chatsworth, hitherto more a place just to
visit, proved to be the key to the future.

Immediately, much had to go. Good farmland in Ayrshire bought cheap in the First
World War had to be sold, the pretty houses built by the fifth Duke in Buxton,
even land in the High Peak bought by Bess of Hardwick, were sold. Claude
Lorrain's Liber Veritatis, bought by the second Duke, the Memling triptych,
Holbein's life-size sketch of Henry VIII and Rembrandt's Philosopher, the sixth
Duke's head of Apollo and the greatest of all Anglo- Saxon manuscripts, the
Benedictional of St Ethelwold, from the Compton family, and 141 early printed
books went to the national collections.

The great thing was to do it slowly: "We were in constant contact with the
Inland Revenue and our strategy was to note how long they took to answer our
last letter and then reply in a day less, so that nobody could accuse us of
dragging our feet." In the end, it took 17 years to reach a conclusion. The
final touch came to him while waiting at Bedford station - to part with Hardwick
itself. Almost as Bess had left it, lovingly restored by the sixth Duke, it was
now handed over to the National Trust. He was delighted with the trust's care
for it: "No words of praise are too high for them."

There remained Chatsworth. Always a public attraction, visited once by Jane
Austen, 80,000 visitors a year came to it in Paxton's time. Even in 1949,
105,000 had come. What would make it irresistible, their agent, Hugo Read,
suggested, would be if the family returned and lived in the house. The private
rooms could be converted to make a modern habitable home, while the public could
permanently enjoy the state rooms, the grounds and other delights.

The Duke was doubtful, the Duchess not: gradually an army of cleaners, craftsmen
and women, builders and engineers, went to work, aided by the foresight of
previous generations who had stored and not disposed of much that was needed to
furnish both parts adequately. In the autumn of 1959 the family moved back in.
The Duchess rearranged the rooms now open to the public in new splendour, and
the public was duly encouraged, coming in ever-increasing numbers.

All this might have easily filled life to the exclusion of everything else: not
so for the Duke. He had, "through the indulgence of my father", bought his first
racehorse in 1948, and from 1963 Bernard van Cutsem, met before the war and a
close friend since, became his trainer. Over the next 12 years this became a
singularly happy partnership, dominated by the surprising success of the great
filly Park Top. To Lester Piggott, her most successful jockey, she was "the best
of her sex I have ever ridden".

Her wins included the Coronation Cup and the King George VI and Queen Elizabeth
Stakes in 1969 - "Goodness, ma'am, it's heavy," said the Duke as the Queen
presented him with the latter trophy: "Of course it is, it's real," she replied.
Real too was the pleasure that the Duke got out of it. "To own a race mare who
would find her place in the racing history of this century was beyond my wildest
dreams," he wrote in Park Top: a romance of the Turf (1976), a book to grip even
those for whom racing means nothing.

With James Toller for the last 20 years, he had other successes. In 1997 he had
wins with all the seven horses he owned, with Compton Place winning the July Cup
at Newmarket. Duck Row, another winner then, is still going strong at nine, and
Bachelor Duke, doing well in the 2,000 Guineas last week, may yet redeem Park
Top's failure to win the Eclipse Stakes. But Park Top's elegance was never to be
forgotten; the Duke was an elegant figure himself, his socks the pale yellow of
his racing colours. They made a fine sight together.

He loved books and pictures too. He bought pictures by Gwen John and Lucian
Freud before they became fashionable, Samuel Palmer, Lowry and Sickert,
portraits of Duncan Grant by Vanessa Bell (and vice versa) and a favourite
Gladys Cooper by Ambrose McEvoy, still underrated. Most of all, he loved William
Nicholson's White Tulips, bought in 1969 and given to the Chatsworth Trust. He
liked commissioning works of art, too. It was Freud's idea to paint the Duchess,
but the Duke's that Freud should paint him.

He asked Jacob Epstein to make a bust of his baby daughter Sophy in 1959, and
early saw the talent of Angela Conner. For him she sculpted heads of Freud,
Harold Macmillan and other members of the family, John Betjeman, Elisabeth Frink
(it now overlooks Frink's bronze War Horse at the end of the Canal Pond at
Chatsworth). Another of Drue Heinz (a much-admired friend) was given to the
London Library, of which she was the great benefactor, and both of them
Vice-Presidents. Even as he grew blind in old age, he wanted a picture on an
easel where he could see it.

Books were, first and last, his greatest passion. The sorrow of parting with yet
more treasures from Chatsworth between 1970 and 1985 to build an endowment to
secure its future was alleviated by the fact that he now had more space for his
own books. Balzac, Dostoevsky, Turgenev, Chekhov, Maupassant and two sets of
Proust rubbed shoulders with Henry James, Kipling, Hardy, Wells, Trollope,
Galsworthy, Waugh, Greene, Maugham and Lawrence. Winston Churchill and P.G.
Wodehouse complete were next to the "Everyman" series and Horizon. He had
collections on the world wars and "Great Disasters", from the Black Hole of
Calcutta to the Titanic, and quite recently had started a new library on
Ireland.

Like the sixth and seventh Dukes, he was a major collector of botanical
picture-books, buying both English and American editions of work on the Victoria
Regia, the colossal water-lily that Paxton first grew at Chatsworth. This led to
friendship with the booksellers Heywood Hill, round the corner from his London
house in Mayfair. In 1991 he volunteered to become the major shareholder in the
firm. It made buying books even easier, he said, and he added to its delights
the establishment of the "Heywood Hill Prize" in 1995, awarded annually at
Chatsworth to authors or publishers who have done good to the world of books.

He had also written and delivered a second book, following Park Top, a series of
autobiographical vignettes entitled Accidents of Fortune, to be published by
Michael Russell in July.

But the 11th Duke never let any of these diversions, or even rescuing
Chatsworth, distract him from more serious tasks. Never one to say no to anyone
or anything if he could help it, he was an outstandingly popular Chancellor of
Manchester University and a benefactor to it. President of the Lawn Tennis
Association, the RNIB, the Royal Hospital and Home, Putney (now the Royal
Hospital for Neuro-disability), the National Association for Deaf Children and
the Building Societies Association, Steward of the Jockey Club and member of the
Totalisator Board, he gave to all these bodies enthusiastic and informed
support.

If he never got into Parliament, he was successively Parliamentary Under-
Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations and Minister of State,
Commonwealth Relations Office, from 1960 to 1964, loyally serving "Uncle Harold"
Macmillan. He liked to put it about that his political success was entirely due
to Pratt's Club, which his father had bought and which became a sort of hive of
Tory dignitaries, so characteristically playing down his own serious and
continuing interest in the Commonwealth (he had been in Australia when his
father died).

This did not extend to Europe, and he became progressively disenchanted with
political rapprochement with it, as he did with what he saw as equally political
attacks on the countryside of Britain and its way of life, last year turning to
the UK Independence Party. He strongly supported the Countryside Alliance and
was deeply shocked by official failure to realise the impact of the
foot-and-mouth epidemic in 2001. To make up for the damage it had done to
tourism, he opened Chatsworth as soon as feasible and kept it open till
Christmas.

Christmas at Chatsworth became only the latest in a series of attractions that
drew more and more people to the house every year. (The figure for paying
visitors in 2003 was 687,000.) The Duchess has contributed a genius for
retailing that has seen the Orangery and the Farm Shop become models of their
kind, and Paine's Carriage House has become a busy restaurant. The 1.3 acres of
roof have been releaded, the Cascade House repaired, the sixth Duke's brocade in
the Yellow Dining Room rewoven, the Victoria Regia flowers again. The grounds
are full of people, who do not guess how much of what they see is due to nature,
how much to art.

All this has put Chatsworth in the forefront of the revival of the country
house, not just as private domain but as a great public amenity. At the moment,
some of its grandest treasures are on tour in America, away for two whole years.
"I wonder if I shall ever see them again," the Duke said wistfully last time we
met. Alas, he will not, but they and the great house will, thanks to him, enjoy
a new life and spread the benefit of his energy and wisdom further and further
abroad.

Andrew Robert Buxton Cavendish, landowner: born London 2 January 1920; MC 1944;
styled 1944-50 Marquess of Hartington, succeeded 1950 as 11th Duke of
Devonshire; Mayor of Buxton 1952-54; President, Royal Hospital and Home
(formerly Royal Hospital and Home for Incurables), Putney 1954- 91; President,
Building Societies Association 1954-61; President, Lawn Tennis Association
1955-61; Chairman, Grand Council, British Empire Cancer Campaign 1956-81;
Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations 1960-62;
Minister of State, Commonwealth Relations Office 1962- 64, and for Colonial
Affairs 1963-64; PC 1964; Chancellor, Manchester University 1965-86; Steward,
Jockey Club 1966-69; President, National Association for Deaf Children 1978-95;
Chairman, Thoroughbred Breeders' Association 1978-81; President, RNIB 1979-85;
Patron in Chief, Polite Society 1991-2004; Vice-President, London Library
1993-2004; KG 1996; married 1941 The Hon Deborah Freeman-Mitford (one son, two
daughters, and two sons and one daughter deceased); died Chatsworth, Derbyshire
3 May 2004.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              161 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 6, 2004, Thursday

KILROY'S STAND

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 23 words


DISGRACED TV host and former Labour MP Robert Kilroy-Silk may stand for the
right-wing UK Independence Party in European elections.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              162 of 166 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 6, 2004, Thursday

..KILROY BACK TOO

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 21 words


DISGRACED TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk is stand in June's European election
for the right-wing UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              163 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 6, 2004

TV KILROY IN BID TO STAND AS EURO MP

BYLINE: David Wooding, Whitehall Editor

LENGTH: 135 words


AXED telly star Robert Kilroy-Silk is to attempt a political comeback -as a Euro
MP.

The chat show host, axed over an anti-Arab rant, is to stand as a candidate for
the UK Independence Party.

Kilroy, 61, was a Labour MP for 11 years and was once tipped as a future Prime
Minister.

He quit in 1985 and fronted his morning show on BBC1 for 17 years.

He lost his Pounds 200,000-a-year job in January after branding Arabs "suicide
bombers, limb amputators and women repressors" in a newspaper.

UKIP chiefs have persuaded him to stand for the East Midlands seat in the June
10 elections.

The anti-EU party plans an official announcement on Saturday.

Labour MEP Phillip Whitehead said: "He is back competing to be the most
anti-European act in town on top of his other prejudices."


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              164 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 4, 2004

Europe: Party leaders reasons to be fearful, part one: the EU poll

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 633 words


The campaign to win the hearts, minds and votes of the electorate begins this
week in three key battlegrounds.

June 10, Super Thursday, will see elections for the European parliament, local
councils, the London mayor and London assembly.

All parties know that the results could be a pointer to the general election
expected next year.

As senior members of all persuasions swap the corridors of Westminster for the
campaign trail, Guardian reporters today examine the issues at the heart of the
three campaigns.

Tony Blair and Michael Howard will be both be privately dreading the results of
the European parliamentary elections.

A repeat of the last round in 1999, when William Hague triumphed after his "Keep
the Pound" campaign, would deal a blow to the prime minister as he experiences
his most dire period since entering No 10.

Blairite ministers, who swallowed doubts about the prime minister's u-turn on
the EU constitution referendum in the hope of undermining the Tories, will
wonder whether his gamble was worth it.

Meanwhile, any slippage by the Tories in Mr Howard's first electoral outing
since winning the party leadership last November would mark the end of his
honeymoon.

But a poor result for either leader would see them questioning whether the
European elections are any kind of pointer to the general election.

Mr Hague's victory in 1999 - when the Tories scooped 36% of the vote to Labour's
28% - counted for nothing two years later when he was trounced at the general
election.

The miserable turnout of 24% also appeared to reflect voters' indifference about
the European parliament, which is seen by many as remote - and as the main depot
for the European gravy train.

The parliament has attempted to counter voter apathy by setting up a website,
europecounts.org.uk. But the pro-Europeans know they have their work cut out,
and their case is not helped by the unwieldy size of the constituencies
introduced at the last election (fought for the first time in England, Scotland
and Wales on a proportional representation system).

In the largest constituency, the south-east of England, more than 6 million
voters will return 10 MEPs.

Despite their reservations, the party leaders will board campaign buses and
aeroplanes over the coming weeks.

The Tories have set themselves the ambitious target of winning the same number
of seats - 36 - as last time.

The party would have to do even better to achieve this, because just 78 are up
for grabs. The UK has lost nine seats to help make way for the countries which
joined the EU on Saturday.

Labour will be determined to do better than last time. One important region will
be the north-west of England, where Labour lost to the Tories in 1999 by 0.9
percentage points.

All the parties will be looking nervously at the performance of the BNP in the
region. The anti-EU United Kingdom Independence party, which won three seats in
England last time, will also be closely watched. A strong showing will not bode
well for the yes campaign in the EU referendum.

London, which returns nine MEPs, will be also be important. Labour was only 2.3
percentage points ahead of the Tories in 1999. It will need to do much better to
assuage Downing Street's nerves about the general election in the capital.

The most exciting battle will be in Northern Ireland, which had the highest
turnout last time (58%), when the electorate voted along traditional political
lines rather than on European issues.

Sinn Fein is expected to snatch the SDLP's sole seat after the leader, John
Hume, stood down. The Democratic Unionist party and Ulster Unionists are
expected to hold the other two seats.

Gordon Brown, page 19

Martin Kettle, page 20

guardian.co.uk/politics/europe


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 1, 2004

IS FREEDOM KILLING HIM?

BYLINE: ANGELA LEVIN

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1997 words


THE SEARCH party had been scouring the tumbledown buildings and overgrown
grounds of Bleak House for nine hours, but still they had found nothing. Ever
since a worried neighbour had phoned to report Tony Martin missing, scores of
officers from the Norfolk constabulary had been searching for the reclusive
farmer, whose quiet existence had come to an abrupt end in 1999 when he shot
dead a 16-year-old burglar, Fred Barras, and wounded his associate, Brendan
Fearon.

Martin was originally jailed for murder, later reduced to manslaughter on the
grounds of diminished responsibility, but in July last year he was released,
free to return to his isolated smallholding in the sleepy village of Emneth
Hungate.

Now he was missing, and fears for his safety were growing.

Martin had, in the past, received death threats from gipsies wanting revenge
over the killing of Barras.

Police took them seriously enough to install security devices at his farm,
including electronic sensors and a mobile phone with a panic button.

They also made regular patrols, to keep an eye on the house and its eccentric
owner.

But in the middle of April, he had disappeared without trace, leaving his radio
on, and his mobile phone behind. A helicopter and police dogs joined the hunt.
But there was still nothing to report.

Then, just as friends began to fear the worst, a shout went up from the unlit
barn. Martin had been found, dishevelled but otherwise quite safe, hiding in a
gap behind a false wall. He had been right under the search team's noses all
that time.

It is perhaps no surprise, then, to learn many of his supporters have become
increasingly worried about Martin's mental health. There are even fears of a
suicide attempt.

What could have driven him to such desperate and peculiar measures? I have known
Tony Martin, now 60, since I started visiting him during his four years in jail.
We regularly exchanged letters. We have also met several times since his
release.

I have watched him struggle with the ups and downs of his own personality.

At his best, he can be funny and informed. But the slightest thing can alter his
mood quite suddenly. He is prone to depression and can be boorish. And at times,
the pressure on him has been intolerable.

Since that terrible night in August 1999, his name has barely been out of the
news. His plight also evoked fierce debate on whether the balance of law has
swung too far in favour of the criminal rather than the honest householder.

For many, he became a hero. His influence was underlined by a vote on the Radio
4 Today programme in which listeners were asked what law they would most like
made - and top of the wish list was the right to defend their homes.

It has always, however, been difficult to separate the cause from the man, and
even more so of late, as his behaviour becomes increasingly erratic. To the
surprise of those who knew him, Martin had coped well in prison. He felt secure
for the first time in years, as, ironically, no one could rob him.

He made friends and studied maths.

Indeed, Martin seemed to have become so institutionalised that I never thought
he would cope or be able to look after himself once released.

Initially, it seemed I was wrong.

When he was freed in a flurry of publicity last July he sold his story for a
six-figure sum - though, for reasons he has refused to explain, he has yet to
claim his payment.

He loved the limelight and adopted a new persona. He started wearing tight black
polo-neck jumpers and slicked down his unkempt hair.

Instead of his previous lonely existence with his three Rottweilers for company,
he accepted social invitations from a motley group of curious celebrities. These
included Jeffrey Archer's former squeeze Sally Farmiloe, Countess Valentina
Artsrunik and It-girl Victoria Aitken.

At each dinner or cocktail party, he held court on the current rise of crime in
this country and flirted like a gauche teenager.

He gave talks about law and order at both Oxford and Cambridge Unions as well as
secondary schools.

He addressed the UK Independence Party conference and went to a lunch given by
the racist British National Party (BNP).

Some BNP members have since referred to themselves as members of 'the Tony
Martin party' but Martin insists he doesn't belong to any political group. 'I
just went along to the BNP lunch as a matter of interest,' he says. 'I don't
want to be an MP, as some have suggested. It would be much too dreary.'

Perhaps a more streetwise man would have been aware that he could be manipulated
by organisations or individuals who had their own agenda.

But not Tony Martin, it seems.

So he was furious when Countess Valentina Artsrunik and her former convict
husband, John McVicar, published a book about his life earlier this year, called
A Right To Kill .

Initially it was claimed he had cooperated with the book, but he strenuously
denies this. 'I want absolutely nothing to do with it and I think the title is
disgusting,' he grumbles. 'No one has the right to kill anyone.' So does he
regret that he took this desperate measure to protect his own property?

'Looking back, I would do the same thing, but I wouldn't want to go through what
I was charged with again,' he says.

Perhaps his new-found social success on his release went to his head, for he has
since cut off relations with some of his oldest friends, including Helen Lilly
who regularly used to give him meals at her small hotel in nearby Wisbech.

Surprising as it may seem, there are now other women in his life. Martin claims
to like the opposite sex, although he avoids commitment and his relations with
them are not sexual.

In fact, I have often found him crude, childishly chauvinistic and absurd,
especially when he talks about the 'vast number' of women who are 'after him' as
if he is some kind of irresistible sex object. 'I am besieged by women,' he once
told me. 'I don't want a long-term relationship with a woman.

They get like cling-film.' But he has an enthusiastic new friend in Jackie
Owens, the tall, attractive 40-something landlady of the Hare And Hounds in
Wisbech.

'I think Tony is terrific,' she enthuses. ' He's eccentric, of course, but how
he lives his life is up to him.

He comes here a lot for our beef and Yorkshire pudding, but I never know when
he'll arrive. He is a law unto himself in more ways than one.' More
significantly he hasn't been in touch with his 89-year-old mother, Hilary, since
before Christmas. She was reluctant to talk about him when I phoned her, but did
admit concern for his mental health.

When I asked Martin why he hadn't been to see her he said: 'What is the point? I
haven't got time.' On this matter, as with all aspects of his life, Martin makes
up his own rules and does exactly what he likes. When he was released from jail
he couldn't return to live at his derelict farm house.

Bleak House, as it is called, is totally uninhabitable.

Doors and windows have been replaced by thick steel shutters and what remains of
the roof has been eroded by creeping ivy.

Martin hasn't even been inside.

After his release from prison, he lived in a caravan on land owned by a friendly
local farmer, whose wife did all his washing. He then moved in to a flat in a
Wisbech hotel owned by his friend and supporter, businessman Malcolm Star and
his partner Mike Coleman. When the business was sold in February, Martin moved
out, leaving the place in a horrendous state.

'He said he would clean it up but his idea of cleaning isn't anyone else's,'
says Mike. 'There was dog food and dog mess everywhere. He doesn't sleep in a
bed. Instead he used to put a blanket on the floor.' Since February, Martin has
lived rough, mainly sleeping in his blue 15-year-old Vauxhall Astra that he
keeps in the driveway of his farm, or occasionally in his partially roofless
barn. He lives and sleeps in the same clothes for days, even weeks on end. 'At
least it isn't yet a criminal offence to do that,' he says.

When he feels the need to wash - usually when he appears in public - he uses a
bathroom at the Hare And Hounds. As one friend says: 'He can be very smelly.' A
constant theme of Martin's conversations is how all he wants to do now is to
work on his farm.

He owns about 30 acres of land in six different locations within a 20-mile
radius of Bleak House.

In practical terms, he has not done much, partly because he spends too much time
chasing publicity and partly because the scale of what needs to be done is too
daunting and he has neither the energy nor stamina to cope.

This has prompted his friends' increasing concern over his health and wellbeing.
His initial euphoria at leaving prison has evaporated, the number of invitations
has dropped off, and he is now faced with the harsh reality of his life.

'We do fear that one day he might try to kill himself' said one. ' Sometimes
it's difficult to see another way it could end.' Certainly Martin's behaviour
has become increasingly odd in the past months. In January, he complained that
he was being harassed by the police, who have breathalysed him three times in as
many months.

His friend Mike Coleman believes it's Martin's fault. 'I think he has
deliberately tried to goad the police,' he says. 'I know he has stayed in a pub
all evening drinking orange juice but then driven home deliberately slowly
knowing the police are likely to stop him. It keeps his name in the newspapers.

'He's even driven one of his tractors into Wisbech in the rush hour, causing a
three-mile traffic jam.' In February, Martin hit the headlines again when he was
arrested over the suspected theft of car number plates which were found in the
back of his car.

He refused to give police a statement. It was only when a council workman told
police he found them on the edge of Martin's land, thought they were the
farmer's and had left them near his barn, that the case was dropped. Martin
could, of course, have told police how he came by them and avoided all the
suspicions.

Martin is also annoyed that he hasn't had his chance to appear in the High Court
to face Brendan Fearon, the career criminal who burgled his home and was suing
Martin for compensation for his leg injury.

Fearon dropped his claim after he was photographed and filmed walking, cycling
and exercising.

Then there is the latest bizarre episode when Martin went missing.

Seeking an explanation, I resolved to meet Martin once more. He turned up
dressed in a rather grubby navy blazer and blue shirt.

Rather than being depressed, he seemed unnaturally buoyant. He talked non-stop,
very loudly, was clumsily flirtatious and at lunch ate his fresh sardines with
his fingers.

When I asked about the day he disappeared, he explained he had been hiding
because he was scared.

'It's a storm in a teacup,' he began grumpily. 'I went to sleep at 5am, which I
often do because I prefer to work at night, and was woken by this almighty crash
when someone tried to burst open the barn doors. I thought it was a police raid
looking to see if I have any guns.' Not for the first time, Martin blames the
police. 'Most of them are completely stupid and I can't stand stupidity. When I
left prison they wanted me to assume a new identity and disappear. I refused. I
think they only wanted to do it for their own convenience to get me out of the
way.

'You know there is nothing wrong with me. It's all the silly b*****s around me.'
Did he like his celebrity status, I wondered? 'I like being recognised wherever
I go and I realise an awful lot of people out there like identifying with me,'
he admitted proudly.

'In fact, I think I am getting my name in the papers more often than David
Beckham.' But fame is one thing, infamy quite another. And no matter how many
column inches are devoted to this strange man, Martin can never escape from his
infamous past.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              166 of 166 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 1, 2004, Saturday

ERRORS & OMISSIONS: CHOICE OF BRITAIN IN EUROPE' PHOTOS WAS JUST NOT CRICKET

BYLINE: GUY KELENY

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 726 words


Last Saturday, we staged a face-off over Britain in Europe and the forthcoming
referendum. Banging the drum for the EU was Roy Hattersley; sounding an
anti-Brussels warning on the opposite page, Frederick Forsyth. Each of these
admirable articles was illustrated by a madly inappropriate photograph.
Accompanying Hattersley was a picture of a futuristic building with this
caption: "Gaze upon the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, and Europe's contribution
to art and design is evident to all but the aesthetically blind."

Er, actually what it shows is America's contribution to art and design. The
Guggenheim Foundation is an American institution and the building is the work of
the American architect Frank Gehry. The Forsyth article was decorated with a
shot of a cricket match, intended no doubt to epitomise an English idyll and
rather desperately captioned: "Can Britain's institutions, democratic and
otherwise, be protected in a federal European state?" What? A Brussels plot to
ban cricket? I don't think even the UK Independence Party has thought of that
one.

Split decision: Myself, I don't mind split infinitives. The rule that condemns
"to boldly go" but allows "will boldly go" and "has boldly gone" seems silly to
me. However, the editor, along with most people who care about the language, is
of a different mind; a fact of which some of my colleagues need a reminder. On
Monday, a news story said a company "was never allowed to formally put its case
to the planning committee". There are rare occasions when the split infinitive
cannot be avoided without outraging the language, but this is not one: "to put
its case formally" would have been better.

Brain in neutral (1): In the face of the unexplained, some people just say "Oh",
and pass on. This newspaper is not intended for them. It should not contain a
picture and caption like that which illustrated a news story on Tuesday about
genetic research that will enable cancer treatments to be better tailored for
each patient. The caption said: "The gene chip' technology allows scientists to
see which drugs are likely to be effective in treating an individual patient's
cancer". Above was something looking rather like one of Damien Hirst's dot
paintings. Was this the actual "chip"? How big was it? What did the dots mean?
Haven't a clue.

Brain in neutral (2). I am grateful to Gyles Cooper, of London N10, for spotting
that in last Saturday's report of the Korean train explosion, we informed you
that buildings were razed "within a radius of 457 metres". Mr Cooper points out
there are two possibilities here. Either somebody paced out the devastated area
and found it to be a perfect circle of radius 457 metres; or the original writer
sensibly gave the rough round figure of 500 yards and somebody down the
production chain preferred metres to yards. All would have been well if this
metrication enthusiast had recognised a rough round figure as a rough round
figure and just changed it to 500 metres. But no: out came the conversion table
- and the rest is lunacy.

Odd: It looks as if the media staff need a briefing from the racing
correspondent. A news story on Thursday began thus: "The odds on the former
chief executive of Channel 4 Michael Jackson becoming the next director general
of the BBC have shortened dramatically following the announcement that he is to
resign from his job in the US." No, the odds against him (not on him) have
shortened. Lower down the story, it says the odds have shortened from 16-1 to
4-1. These odds, expressing a less than even chance, are all odds against. Odds
on Mr Jackson's appointment would be on the other side of evens - 1-4, 1-16 or
whatever. They would express the expectation that the appointment was more
likely than not. Hence the expression "odds-on favourite". According to our
report, Mr Jackson is only joint second favourite, though more confusion is
introduced by the information that Mark Byford is favourite at 7-1.

The headline says: "Jackson tipped to be DG as he quits American job." There is
nothing in the story about anyone tipping Jackson - that is, giving an expert
opinion that, at the quoted odds, he is a very good bet. Some say he is a
"senior contender" with "very realistic" chances; others think him unlikely to
get the job. All considered, I'm not rushing off to Ladbroke's.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd
