
                               1 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

After the elections, is Blair dead in the water?

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 1372 words


NOTHING is harder in politics than to regain momentum, once it has been lost.
All governments meet setbacks from which they have to recover; all governments
suffered periods of unpopularity; polling approval goes up and down. None of
this matters much, so long as the ship of government is continuing to move
forward in the water.

I've seen several Prime Ministers struggle to restore momentum, Clement Atlee in
the late 1940s, Harold Macmillan in the early 1960s, Jim Callaghan in the late
1970s, John Major in the 1990s. None of them managed to restart the engine. Is
Tony Blair now becoming yet another Prime Minster who is dead in the water?

The pattern of last week's elections suggests that he may be. The European
elections would have been bad enough. The Conservatives have to worry about the
loss of their votes to the UKIP, but Tony Blair has to worry about the size of
the combined Euro-sceptic vote, the Conservatives and the UKIP put together. At
a general election much of that vote may recombine under the Conservatives;
Euro-sceptic tactical voters will support the party that can win Labour seats.

The European elections are about Europe; the local elections reflect domestic
issues, though they have also been influenced by the foreign policy issues of
Europe and Iraq. These local elections were a disaster for Labour. This was not
a blip, it was a slump in Labour support, and on a rising vote.

The collapse of Labour support in the local elections of the past three years is
as bad as the collapse of Conservative support in the early 1990s. In 1992, the
Conservatives had won the general election with more than 40 per cent of the
vote, just as Labour did in 2001. Three years later, in 1995, with a general
election ahead, the Conservative share of the local government vote had fallen
to the mid 20s, and it had been overtaken by the Liberal Democrats.

Three years after its 2001 general election victory, Labour support in local
government elections has fallen to the mid 20s, and it has been overtaken by the
Liberal Democrats. Indeed the Lib-Dems have a larger lead over Labour in 2004
then they had over the Conservatives in 1995. Running third in a three-party
election points to the door marked "Exit".

The parallel extends to the reasons for the two Governments becoming so
unpopular.

The strongest arguments against John Major's Conservatives in 1997 were that it
was time for a change, that the Government was "sleazy" and could not be
trusted, that it was split on a major issue of foreign policy, and that it had
been incompetent in management of the economy. The last point referred to the
entry and exit from the European exchange rate mechanism, not to the effective
chancellorship of Kenneth Clarke. Indeed Kenneth Clarke began the period of
economic stability that Gordon Brown has maintained.

The first three causes of discontent apply again to Labour; the fourth does not,
thanks to the economic competence of Gordon Brown and the Bank of England. If
electorates voted only on economic policy, Labour could expect to win the next
general election, but they do not.

The Conservatives had been in office for 18 years by 1997, which is far too long
for any party. The public is not yet as tired of Labour as it was of the
Conservatives at that time. Yet the personality of the Labour Party seems at
least equally irritating to voters. I am, perhaps, an inadequate judge of this,
because I quite like the Blair administration in personality, but I have to
report what I hear.

I make a mild defence that Tony Blair seems a very pleasant man, that Jack Straw
is rather a good Foreign Secretary, that Gordon Brown is a formidable
Chancellor, that Margaret Beckett is an agreeable, experienced professional, and
all I get for my pains is: "How could you possibly believe that?" Why is it that
this hardworking and somewhat distinguished band of senior ministers should be
greeted with irritated indignation by people who are by no means all
Conservative voters?

Two harsh words are used again and again. One is "liars" and the other is
"smug".

One can try to defend the Blair administration against the charge of lying, but
it is much like defending the Major Government against the charge of sleaze. It
was the 45-minute weapons of mass destruction that did it. Part of folklore of
public memory is that Tony Blair took Britain to war on a lie.

Like most stories in folklore there is an element of truth in it. If Tony Blair
had been a more sceptical or more prudent man, he would have realised that the
45-minute claim was neither reliable nor probable. He did not knowingly lie, but
he was reckless; he used an unsupported report that proved to be mistaken.

Recklessness is a serious offence in a Prime Minster who is taking his country
to war.

The widespread belief that Labour ministers are particularly prone to lying has
been reinforced by the view that they are unforgivably smug. There has never
been an administration that seemed so pleased with itself, so over-confident of
its own exceptional virtue. Even more than most politicians, Labour ministers
use culpably bogus arguments to defend every kink and twist of government
policy, a practice justified as "collective responsibility". They combine
piddling, disingenuous half-truths with assertions of superior morality. No
wonder they have got up the noses of the British people. Just wait until we
sneeze.

John Major's parallel predicament was largely caused by the Conservative Party's
passionate divisions on European policy. In this, I wholly shared the view of
the rebels; The Maastricht Treaty was an invasion of British independence that
prepared the way for the present, even more outrageous draft constitution. The
Conservatives are now paying the price for signing Maastricht in their loss of
votes to the UKIP.

The Labour Party itself has lost support over its policy of European
integration, and will lose much more if Tony Blair signs the draft constitution
at this week's summit. But it is Iraq that has done the worst damage to Labour,
just like the damage Maastricht did to the Conservatives. The Labour Party is
split from top to bottom by passionate disagreements on the morality, legality
and prudence of the Iraq war.

Many voters do still think that Tony Blair was right about Iraq; unfortunately
most of them are Conservatives and are pro-Americans who detest his European
policies. The mass of voters recognise that the Government is split wide open on
Iraq, and they have no confidence in split Governments.

There are still three possible outcomes at the next general election. Perhaps
Labours support will recover, possibly under Gordon Brown's gloomy leadership,
as Conservative support recovered in 1983, 1987 and 1992. These Tory recoveries
are, however, an unreliable guide. After their earlier mid-term crisis, Labour
lost decisively in 1951, 1970 and 1979. An unpopular Government cannot rely on
automatically recovering its popularity, particularly if it remains divided on
policy.

There is therefore a real possibility of a hung Parliament, in which Labour
would have to rely on Lib-Dem votes. Unless there were a formal coalition, as in
Scotland, this would probably lead to another election inside a few months. The
Lib-Dems would be gullible if they entered a coalition without securing
agreement on proportional representation for Westminster, which might again
split the Labour Party. For the first time since 1945, there is a realistic
chance of the Liberals becoming part of government, though they came fairly
close in 1974.

There is also a chance, under-rated by some commentators, that Labour will not
recover and the Conservatives under Michael Howard will win outright. Last week
the adjusted local government vote was 38 per cent Conservative, 29 per cent
Lib-Dem and 26 per cent Labour, on a 40 per cent turnout. In 1983, the general
election vote was similarly divided, 42 per cent Conservative, 28 per cent
Labour and 25 per cent Lib-Dem, on a 73 per cent turnout. That gave Margaret
Thatcher an overall majority of 144 seats. Things have changed, but the
Conservatives are again serious contenders for power.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2004, Monday

Bad and worse (part II)

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 640 words


A few months ago, Conservative strategists were looking forward to the elections
to the European Parliament with even more enthusiasm than the council contests.

The Tory position on Europe, they knew, was popular while the Liberal Democrats,
who outperform their national poll ratings in local ballots, invariably struggle
in a battle for representation in Brussels/Strasbourg.

The Labour Party, furthermore, could be attacked for its arrogant refusal to
concede a referendum on the proposed EU constitution. There was always a
potential threat from the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), which had
secured 7 per cent of the vote in the 1999 European elections, but that camp had
been relatively quiet in recent years. The Tories could thus expect an
absolutely smashing victory when these ballot papers were counted.

For various reasons, virtually nothing of what was expected has come to pass. It
was another dire night for Labour (it could have been more bloody still if the
referendum U-turn had not occurred) but what might have been a Conservative
landslide became a UKIP roadblock. The Liberal Democrats did better than in
1999, although the UKIP obviously hurt them as well, while smaller parties of
the Left made some advances as well. The inevitable headlines are of the Tories
seeping large numbers of votes to the UKIP and of fresh internal pressure on
Michael Howard to harden his line on the EU to prevent this trend being repeated
at a general election widely presumed to be tentatively scheduled for 11 months'
time.

The danger for the Conservative Party is more subtle than has been outlined. Mr
Howard is not about to rush out a speech attacking the EU on every front and
promising withdrawal. He is well aware that this would be to approach political
petrol with a lighted match. He knows that every UKIP supporter reassured by
such an approach would be matched by a moderate and uncommitted elector repelled
by what would seem to be a reckless bolt into the unknown.

What the Conservatives could now suffer from, however, are opportunity costs.
The sight of different Tory factions appearing on television arguing about what
their stance towards the EU should be is damaging even if policy ultimately does
not alter one iota. There is the risk that an excess amount of energy and time
would be spent on the UKIP threat by Conservative officials when they should be
concentrating their firepower elsewhere. There is the chance that Shadow
ministers will feel obliged to repeat their existing position on Europe at
higher decibels to the bemusement of the bulk of the electorate. All of this
would be very unwise.

On Saturday, in the aftermath of Labour's heavy losses in the local elections,
we asserted that while the results were bad, the response could be worse if the
Government edged to the left to appease those allegedly alienated by Iraq or
some other issue. There is a strong parallel for the Conservative Party this
morning.

The outcome is comparatively bad, but the wrong response would compound the
situation. Mr Howard not only needs to do nothing about the UKIP surge but
should say nothing about it. His colleagues need to be similarly Trappist.

That the UKIP did well is not without interest. The party fought a lively
campaign. It engaged in the shrewd use of celebrity, paid for a vibrant poster
campaign and exploited the fact that the media were desperate for a means of
making this election interesting. It turned the contest into by-election on
Brussels. There are profound lessons that the EU needs to learn about its
arrogance and remoteness. The lesson that the Tories need to learn, in the
short-term, is that of the virtues of silence about the UKIP, while having much
to say intelligently in the final stages of negotiations on the constitution.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 13, 2004

I'LL KILL-ROY EURO DEAL STONE DEAD!

BYLINE: by JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 308 words


ANTI-EUROPE campaigner Robert Kilroy Silk last night vowed to "kill off" the new
EU constitution.

And he warned Tony Blair that signing up to a federal superstate would "show
contempt for the British people".

His comments came amid predictions that the European election results -
announced tonight - will deliver a near-fatal body blow to the Prime Minister's
Euro dream.

There is widespread expectation that most Britons have voted for parties against
the constitution.

Sources claimed Mr Kilroy Silk's UK Independence Party was set to win a shock
20% of the vote across England and Wales, with the Tories polling above 35%.

And Mr Kilroy Silk said he is already plotting with UKIP's allies in other EU
countries to "kill the constitution stone dead".

He said last night: "There's no way that Tony Blair can go ahead with the
constitution.

"That would show contempt for the British people. I will be at the heart of the
campaign that will defeat the Government in a referendum."

The former Labour MP and TV presenter's high-profile campaign has been credited
with boosting UKIP's fortunes.

Tories predict he is poised to push Labour into third place in the East Midlands
region where he is standing as a Euro candidate.

And senior UKIP figures plan to install Mr Kilroy Silk as leader of the party
tomorrow. Meanwhile, Mr Blair will go to Brussels this week for a crucial EU
summit to agree the final draft of the European constitution.

That is despite an expected backlash against the controversial document, which
will hand key powers to Eurocrats.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram said:

"Tony Blair has failed to listen to the people of this country - to his cost in
the local elections.

"He had better listen to them now and go to Europe this week to say 'No' to the
constitution."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                               4 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

HAMISH MCRAE: TODAY EUROPE, TOMORROW THE WORLD: A BRITISH BUNKER MENTALITY WILL
DRAG EVERYONE DOWN

BYLINE: HAMISH MCRAE

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1070 words


It is Euro-constitution week - and time to start thinking about the long-term
economic significance of the British public's anti-EU stance. We can see that
not just in the showing by the UK Independence Party in the election results,
but in the anti-European tone that both big parties took in the election run-up.

Whatever you believe about the rights and wrongs of EU membership, this view
will surely start to shape the structure of the economy.

It is surprising in some ways that it has had so little effect up to now. Some
foreign companies that use the UK as a production base for shipping goods to
continental Europe have warned about further investment, but actually the money
has continued to come in. If you include portfolio investment - buying the
shares of companies - the UK share of EU inward investment has fallen in recent
years. But if you take direct investment - establishing plants - it seems to be
rising. Certainly, London is increasing its lead as the main European centre for
foreign investment, with 23 per cent of the total last year.

But it would be naive to expect this to continue. Indeed, you can already detect
some slippage in the importance of UK-EU trade relations. The graph comes from a
fascinating study by the Treasury and the Department of Trade and Industry,
published last month, called Trade and the Global Economy. Its core message is
that greater openness in world trade has been the key to greater prosperity in
developed countries, and that trade has made a real contribution to the
reduction of poverty in the developing world. More of that in a moment.

There are two striking things about the graph. One is the contribution that
trade within the EU made to growth through most of the period from 1960 to 2000.
A lot of this increased trade has been within rather than between industries. So
the whole European industrial structure has become much more closely integrated.

The second thing, however, is the way in which British trade with the rest of
the EU has started to fall as a percentage of GDP - a fall that started in the
1990s just at the time when our economy was outpacing the big three continental
ones. Given that mainland European growth has been slow since 2000, I would
expect the ratio to have fallen further since then.

This raises a question as to whether the UK is in the early stages of a
longer-term trend: a reduction in the proportion of GDP that is traded with the
rest of the EU. Note that, if this is right, the trend will have begun before
the present hostility to the EU really built up and is a function of the slow
growth of continental Europe vis-a-vis North America and East Asia.

I suppose the Europhobes would argue that if the EU is going to become less
important to us and the US more so, it would be more in our self- interest to
make the political switch in our trade relations from the EU to Nafta. It is
certainly true that our largest current account surplus is with the US and our
largest deficit with Germany, but the fact remains that roughly half our foreign
income still comes from EU countries. So it does not seem wise to mess up our
relations with them.

The much more sensible conclusion is that the UK has a huge interest in greater
freedom in world trade in both goods and services. Greater economic success in
core Europe - the original six members of the EU - would be helpful to us
because that would increase export markets. But we need a successful world
economy even more than we need a successful European one.

This is particularly evident in London and the South-east, where the big earners
(aside from tourism) are financial services, telecommunications and other
hi-tech sectors such as pharmaceuticals. These are global industries and we are
fortunate to be seen to have a comparative advantage in them. Put simply, we
need more globalisation.

And that is why the Treasury-DTI paper is so helpful. There is a fair degree of
hostility washing around that "G" word, though perhaps a little less now that
India is clearly joining China as a huge beneficiary of greater world trade. The
key point the paper makes is that the benefits of openness need to be captured
and managed so they help whole communities. It is important, for example, to
have flexible domestic markets. Freedom of trade puts pressure on countries to
make structural changes in their economies. Resources have to be shifted out of
activities where there is little competitive advantage into ones where there is.
New skills have to be learnt, relative wage rates have to change, people have to
move jobs and maybe move homes.

So economic reform is important and the paper does point out that within Europe
some reforms have begun - for example, the Agenda 2010 plan in Germany. Now,
most of the German people I speak to reckon this plan is grossly inadequate, but
this is an official government paper and it wouldn't be helpful for it to go on
the attack. The section that is perhaps more convincing is the one arguing that
trade in low-income countries has increased living standards. Some countries
have not benefited from globalisation - even those that have started to make the
appropriate reforms. And these need help, including better access to credit,
debt relief and more. If some progress is made on debt relief after the latest
G8 meeting, that is all to the good.

They also need an end to distorting policies of agricultural support in the
developed world. The point here is that all countries have to work to increase
support for trade liberalisation, and that brings the argument back to the UK
relationship with the EU in the future.

There are solid reasons to expect the EU will gradually become a somewhat less
important trading partner for the UK. But it will remain an enormously important
player in world trade - a vital market not just for our goods and services but
for the output of the developing world. The UK, together with Scandinavia and
the accession states, should be a force keeping the EU as an outward-looking
body. It is a force for reform of the common agricultural policy - pretty
unsuccessfully so far, but still a force.

The danger is that we may distance ourselves from the show and so weaken our
influence in keeping the EU as a core part of a multilateral trading system. And
that would be bad news for us as well as Europe and the rest of the world.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               5 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

LABOUR FEARS UKIP POLL VICTORY

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH AND FRANCIS ELLIOTT

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 512 words


Labour Party managers fear the tiny UK Independence Party could emerge as the
sensational victors when votes are announced in the European election today. If
so, it will be the first time in British history that a national election has
been won by a fringe party with no sitting MPs.

Labour's exit polls show that UKIP has polled "disproportionately heavily" in
the south-west of England, making it possible that its share of the national
vote may be higher than any other party's.

Labour's polling also shows the Conservatives ahead of Labour, with the Liberal
Democrats in fourth place. One senior Labour source: "UKIP could be first,
second, or they could be third. It's difficult to tell, because we don't know
exactly where their votes are coming from. A lot are coming from people who
don't normally vote at all."

UKIP is forecasting that it will come third, with about 20 per cent of the vote,
close behind Labour. The Tories believe that in East Anglia, UKIP will be neck
and neck with the Liberal Democrats, ahead of Labour. In the local council
elections last week, UKIP took fourth place with about 15 per cent of the total.

In the short term, a strong performance by UKIP will create more problems for
the Tory leader Michael Howard than for Tony Blair.

It could even strengthen Mr Blair's hand when he goes to Brussels next week to
negotiate the final draft of the proposed European constitution. He can use
growing anti-EU feeling at home as an argument to ensure that issues such as
tax, social policy and defence continue to be controlled by national governments
rather than becoming EU responsibility.

But over the longer term,

the growing numbers backing a party which wants Britain to pull out of the EU
will add to the Government's problems next year, when Tony Blair is committed to
calling a referendum on the EU constitution.

The prospect of a UKIP victory led to fresh infighting in the Tory party last
night with Iain Duncan Smith's former chief aide launching a stinging attack on
Michael Howard's European campaign. Nick Wood, who was the Conservative's media
director under Mr Duncan Smith and William Hague, called on the Tory leader to
harden his anti-European policies.

Writing in The Independent on Sunday, Mr Wood states: "UKIP's success has opened
a European flank that Howard will have to close."

Mr Howard was seen as a hardliner on Europe when a minister in John Major's
cabinet, but party activists now accuse him of being too willing to compromise.

One sign of how Mr Howard appears to have changed is that his handling of Europe
has been praised by the former deputy prime minister, Michael Heseltine, one of
the most ardent pro-Europeans in the party. But he warned Mr Howard not to
"pander' to UKIP. "Their policies are a disaster for this country. I can't think
of a sillier way for British foreign policy to be conducted than actually to
remove the thing that America wants most from us, which is an influence in
Europe."

Focus, page 18; Nick Wood, page 25; John Rentoul, page 26

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               6 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

FOCUS: SO, WHEN THE COUNTING IS DONE, HOW DO THE BIG THREE STAND?; THE BIG VOTE;

 CATASTROPHE, SET-BACK ... THE WORST RESULT EVER. BUT AS THEY AWAIT

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1273 words


Minutes after Ken Livingstone and his staff had gone back to his office on
Friday evening to celebrate his re-election, he had to take his leave of them
and shut himself in a side room to take a long-distance phone call. It was from
Tony Blair, who had once warned that Mr Livingstone's election would prove a
"disaster" for London.

This time, the Prime Minister was calling from Washington to congratulate his
new and unreliable ally. The two men agreed that the Labour Party had suffered a
dreadful set of election results. Both, for different reasons, agreed the
explanation of Labour's humiliation was Iraq.

Yesterday Mr Livingstone put out a statement blaming the "tragic error" of Iraq
for obscuring the good news about Labour's domestic record. He added, with his
usual lack of false modesty - or modesty of any other description - that
Londoners had voted for him because he stood for "good public services,
protection of the environment and opposition to the war".

The Muslim Association of Britain holds the same view. It claims that Muslim
opposition to the war added to the Liberal Democrat vote in several northern
cities, as well as saving Livingstone from defeat by the Tory Steven Norris.

The same assumption explains why the Cardiff Labour MP Jon Owen Jones was
relaxing in a caravan on the Pembrokeshire coast yesterday, instead of panicking
or wringing his hands. Mr Jones' seat is top of the Liberal Democrat target
list. He held it by only 659 votes in 2001, and last week the Lib Dems took all
20 local council seats.

Mr Jones said: "It doesn't look brilliant, but I'm holding my nerve. We would
all hope that Iraq won't be a negative factor by the time of the general
election, but if it is, I argued against the war in Iraq."

If Mr Blair is asked to explain Labour's setbacks when he meets Labour MPs
tomorrow, or at his monthly press conference on Tuesday, he will probably say
that Iraq is top of the Government's political problems.

Others, however, think that Iraq has turned into a convenient excuse for a party
that has much deeper problems to address. Iraq cannot, after all, explain why
Labour should gain 31 seats in the Rhondda, on the same day as it lost 24 in
Newcastle upon Tyne. One observer who had been canvassing in a Labour heartland,
where Labour was give a serious mauling by the Liberal Democrats, said: "Iraq
was no more than one issue, which came up third or fourth behind crime and
anti-social behaviour."

Political strategists at Conservative Central Office think that Labour may now
be caught in the kind of fatal pincer movement that destroyed John Major's
government. It is undoubtedly true that - like the Tories under Major - Labour
is haemorrhaging councillors. In 1996, there were 11,000 Labour councillors.
After last week's results, they are down to just over half that number. Since
councillors tend to be the most active members of their local parties, these
losses must be having a serious impact on Labour's grassroots organisation.

The other parallel with the 1990s, the Tories claim, is that people now vote for
whichever party has the best chance of beating Labour, which means the Liberal
Democrats in the northern cities and the Tories in the South.

Blairite loyalists say that Labour's predicament is nowhere near that bad,
because although last week's results were dire for Labour, they were not very
good for the Conservatives. "The results were bad, but they were not meltdown,"
Tessa Jowell, the Secretary of State for Culture, said yesterday. "They are said
to be our worst result since 1968 - well in 1968, the Tories had 60 per cent of
the vote; now they're on 38 per cent."

They also claim the campaign enabled them to get a team working together on a
daily basis, in a dry run for a general election campaign. It consisted of John
Prescott, Gordon Brown, party chairman Ian McCartney, Cabinet Office minister
Douglas Alexander and senior staff from Downing Street and party headquarters.

The former cabinet minister Peter Mandelson was a less frequent participant in
these campaign meetings, and has been doing some groundwork for the Government's
next test, the impending by-election in Leicester South.

As often happens with Mr Mandelson, even this relatively low-key involvement has
set off ripples of speculation about what exactly he is doing. At least one
observer thought he was there to undermine the Prime Minister's new press
secretary, David Hill.

Mr Hill - a far less flamboyant figure than Alastair Campbell, whom he replaced
- is popular in the Labour Party. A close colleague said he was "relaxed" about
Mr Mandelson's involvement.

Members of the Blair circle were angry with the BBC yesterday - not for the
first time - for reporting that Thursday's results were the worst ever for any
ruling party. This is true in the sense that Labour was pushed into third place,
which has not happened to a governing party before. But Labour lost fewer than
500 seats, with the gains divided by several parties, whereas in 1995, the
Conservatives lost about 2,000 seats, all but about 200 of which went to Labour.

In Birmingham - where the count in one ward will be completed today - Labour has
kept control in what used to be a Tory city, despite six campaigning visits from
Michael Howard, who launched his local government campaign there. Out of their
232 council seats gained, 19 are on just three councils - Brentwood, Wokingham
and Worthing - where the local MPs are sitting Tories with comfortable
majorities.

While Liberal Democrat party workers sailed up into a state of euphoria after
their big, symbolic victory on Tyneside, they also had poor results in some
places where they usually do well, such as Cheltenham and Eastbourne. When the
European election results come out tonight, the Lib Dems will probably be
consigned to fourth place.

Nigel Farage, the leading MEP for the UK Independence Party, took a break
yesterday to go fishing on the south coast, and landed a 5lb bass, completing a
run of luck which started when Robert Kilroy-Silk agreed to enliven the election
by running as a UKIP candidate in West Midlands.

His little party is the only one with unqualified cause to celebrate last week.
Its sudden rise is likely to dominate the political news when the European
election results announced.

Labour MPs have watched UKIP's rise with mixed feelings. They like the way the
party has taken votes off the Tories, but with a referendum on the European
constitution likely to happen next year, the rise of an overtly anti-EU
single-issue party is causing anxiety.

Mr Farage denied that all UKIP had done was eat into the Tory vote. "Okay, we
damaged the Tories. We damaged them psychologically more than anything else, but
when you count the Labour voters or Liberal Democrats or people who weren't
going to vote at all who voted UKIP, they outnumber the former Tory voters. Our
canvassers had people saying they hadn't voted for 10 years but were voting for
us."

Tony Blair is red-faced as he admits that his support for the Iraq war has cast
a shadow' over Labour's electoral prospects. His party's MPs must now judge
whether voters' trust in their leader has broken down across the board

Charles Kennedy is stuck on amber. Mixed results saw significant gains,
particularly in Labour heartlands in the north of England and South Wales,
offset by poor showings in the South-east

Michael Howard is set for a dose of the blues after solid, but not spectacular,
gains in the local elections are overshadowed by the prospect of UKIP triumph in
the Euro poll

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               7 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

FOCUS: HOWARD IS NOT THE ONLY ONE WHO SHOULD FEAR THE ADVANCE OF THE POLITICAL
UPSTARTS

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 448 words


As we already know how more than half the country voted on Thursday, one might
imagine that it should be fairly clear what will be revealed when the European
Parliament vote is counted tonight. Nothing could be further from the truth.

Perhaps the biggest unknown is just how many votes the UK Independence Party has
garnered and from whom. Opinion polls suggested it might have won as much as 20
per cent. But in the local elections it averaged only 14 per cent where it
stood, while in London it could manage no more than 10 per cent.

But then neither the local elections nor the London Assembly elections were
about Europe. Some voters will doubtless have backed UKIP in the European
elections while voting for someone else in the local elections. If these
split-ticket voters garner UKIP another 5 per cent of the vote, then that 20 per
cent target will indeed be in sight.

It is assumed that would be bad news for Michael Howard, eroding the 12-point
lead he enjoyed over Labour in the local elections. But the evidence from the
local elections is less clear. The presence of a UKIP candidate in a local ward
on Thursday seemed to hurt the Liberal Democrats more than anyone else. And
while UKIP does seem to have hurt the Tories in London, it cut into the Liberal
Democrat vote there too. It should be borne in mind as well that it was not just
the Tories who lost out to UKIP in the last Euro elections in 1999 or to Sir
James Goldsmith's Referendum Party in the 1997 general election.

For many voters UKIP is probably a convenient vehicle of protest. In this it is
doubtless an alternative to the Liberal Democrats. So any UKIP breakthrough
could well make tonight less enjoyable for Charles Kennedy as well as Michael
Howard, helping to ensure the Liberal Democrats still end up coming third
despite their second place in the locals.

Meanwhile, Labour may need to look over its shoulder in a different direction -
George Galloway's Respect coalition. Respect did not fight the local elections
so it could not damage Labour there. But it did fight the London election. And
one little-noticed feature of the result was that Respect nearly managed to pass
the 5 per cent threshold needed to win an Assembly seat. Indeed, it won 16 per
cent in the City and East constituency where a large Muslim community appears to
have backed Respect's anti-war stance.

Even if Respect wins no more than 2 or 3 per cent of the vote across the country
as a whole, they are likely to be votes Labour can ill afford to lose. So Tony
Blair should certainly not assume that his troubles are all over either.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics, Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

HOWARD IS GOING THE WRONG WAY ABOUT TACKLING UKIP

BYLINE: NICK WOOD

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 766 words


A few weeks ago, hardly anyone in senior Conservative circles thought that the
United Kingdom Independence Party would prove to be much more than a minor
irritation when the results of the European elections were declared.

With his U-turn over a referendum on the European constitution, Tony Blair had
killed off the one issue that would have brought the European campaign to life.
With the euro already a dead duck and Brussels doing little to excite the
tabloid media, there seemed scant reason to suppose European issues would play
much part in the Strasbourg elections.

The received wisdom was that both the local and European elections would be a
referendum on Blair and his government. Accordingly, Michael Howard went
negative, constructing a campaign built around the slogan Let Down by Labour and
seeking to capitalise on Labour's domestic unpopularity. Charles Kennedy did
much the same - making his party's opposition to the Iraq war the core of his
appeal for town hall and European votes.

At the time, Howard's strategy seemed sound. Only now, with the luxury of
hindsight, have the flaws become apparent.

Three things went wrong for him; three things that should ensure a stunning
result for UKIP, overshadow the Conservatives' powerful showing in the local
elections, take the heat off Blair and provoke fresh Tory jitters.

First, UKIP hired Dick Morris, formerly an adviser to Bill Clinton. He gave the
party a simple, clear message designed to resonate with the voters, especially
Eurosceptic Conservatives: Britain should pull out of the EU.

Second, it made Robert Kilroy-Silk its frontman. Typically, UKIP leaders are
drawn from the swivel-eyed brigade prone to lose public support in exact
proportion to the amount of airtime they get. Not so the perma- tanned
Kilroy-Silk, the recently dethroned king of daytime TV and a former Labour MP.
He campaigned brilliantly, giving the "quit Europe" message glamour and
professionalism.

But there is a third - and for Howard more worrying - reason why UKIP has surged
to national prominence. Tonight's results are likely to bear an uncanny
resemblance to those in 1989 when the Greens dropped out of a clear blue sky and
snatched 15 per cent of the vote. Then, as now, the Government was deeply
unpopular; then, as now, the Opposition was struggling to persuade the public
that they were ready and able to form the next government; and then the
Government, under John Major, recovered to win the 1992 election.

But a protest vote has to go somewhere. If the Tories were in election- winning
shape, it would have gone to Howard for all Kilroy-Silk's winning smile. The
fact that it latched on to UKIP's C-list celebrity circus says as much about the
Conservatives as it does about public attitudes to Europe. Of course, UKIP won't
poll anything like tonight's predicted high levels in the next general election.
At least half its support can be expected to return to its natural home,
overwhelmingly Tory. But Howard cannot rely upon a natural subsidence in UKIP
support to rescue him on election day. UKIP's success has opened a European
flank that he will have to close.

He needs to recognise that the centre of gravity over Europe has been moving in
a Eurosceptic direction for at least the past six years - an observation
appreciated by his predecessors Iain Duncan Smith and William Hague, whose
deliberately inflammatory anti-Brussels rhetoric in the 1999 European campaign
crushed the UKIP threat. Pledges to repatriate fishing policy or overseas aid no
longer impress a growing section of the electorate increasingly fed up with
being bossed around by Brussels.

Howard needs to make clear that under him, a future Tory government will insist
upon a new long-term relationship with Brussels and one that halts the
federalist ratchet for good. Hardening his anti-European policies and rhetoric
is even more important to Howard given that Kilroy-Silk is planning to stand in
one of the forthcoming by-elections and keep the UKIP pot boiling in the run-up
to the general election. Support of as little as 5 per cent for UKIP at a
general election could stop the Tories gaining many Labour seats. Not so much
Kilroy was here as Kilroy is here.

Howard is rightly planning a raft of announcements about the public services.
But the danger is that as he strives to tackle the vision thing - and
re-establish his party as an alternative government - his message will be lost
amid a fresh bout of Tory infighting over Europe.

Nick Wood was the Conservative Party's media director, 2001-2003

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

YES, YES, IT'S BAD FOR MR BLAIR. BUT IT'S MR HOWARD WHO SHOULD WORRY

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1167 words


The national importance of Thursday's elections is easy to summarise: they do
not matter a bean. Of course they matter, a little, to the residents of Trafford
or Newcastle, in that their council is under new management. And they matter to
Londoners, because Ken Livingstone's congestion charge and extra buses have made
an observable difference to the capital. But the results of the European
Parliament elections, to be declared tonight, will not affect anyone much -
apart from the candidates near the cut-off points on the party lists, and their
researchers, secretaries and families. Which is one reason why the Government
had to work so hard to encourage people to vote in the European elections.

And the effect on the Prime Minister's position is negligible. Which must come
as a disappointment to many of those who contributed to the higher turnout on
Thursday. One of the stronger motivations for voting was to send a message to
Tony Blair, about the Iraq war, or Europe, or that life in Britain is not
perfect. The ritual is completed by Cabinet ministers appearing in the media
sounding suitably "mortified" (David Blunkett) or acknowledging that they had
received "a kicking" (John Prescott). And by the Prime Minister conceding that
the Iraq war has cast a "shadow" over Labour's electoral fortunes. There were
two other significant gestures. He did say how sorry he was to Labour
councillors who lost their seats. And Margaret Beckett said the Iraq situation
was "unique" - an interesting way of saying: "It won't happen again."

But that is it. It is a ritual that helps everyone feel better. Blair is not
going to apologise for the Iraq war; and he is not going to stand down,
chastened. Next year, people will be voting to choose between him and Michael
Howard as prime minister. Voting for the Liberal Democrats, with due respect to
my colleague Alan Watkins, will be largely a matter of stopping one of the
larger parties winning a particular constituency, while the UK Independence
Party and Respect will retreat back under the stones from where they crawled.

For all these reasons, it does not make sense to make predictions for the
general election from Thursday's elections. True, Labour has done badly in the
results declared so far. And, despite the johnnymandering carried out by
Prescott to try to maximise the Labour vote in the European elections, the
party's share of the vote in tonight's results is likely to be even worse.
Prescott moved the local elections to coincide with the European ones and forced
one-third of the electorate to vote by post in a desperate attempt to counter
the apathy of Labour supporters.

Yet most of the local elections were not manipulated, and Labour's share of the
vote, as far as the BBC can extrapolate from the patchwork of councils up for
election, was only 3 percentage points lower than in May 2000. In the general
election a year later, Blair won a second huge Commons majority with 42 per cent
of the vote. If that figure dropped only 3 points in next year's general
election, Blair would still win with a majority of 124 seats.

Shadow? Did someone say shadow? If there is a shadow over last week's elections,
there is no doubt that it falls mostly across Howard, even as he displays all
the outward signs of triumph. In the local elections, the Conservatives have
done about as well as they did four years ago, just before William Hague became
another hedgehog on the Blairite motorway.

More telling than the local election results was an opinion poll for the BBC
which found that Blair's "trustworthy" rating has dropped sharply over the past
year - but that 63 per cent of voters still rate him as "competent". With
Margaret Thatcher back on our television screens last week, this is another
reminder of the past: people may not have liked her, but they thought she was
competent. Even worse for Howard, he is rated less trustworthy and competent
than Blair.

Unless something dramatic happens in the next 12 months, Howard is going to lead
his party to its third consecutive defeat next May or June. This is not
particularly his fault. His party is trapped by forces of history that Blair is
still marshalling with some skill. The centre of gravity of British politics has
shifted in favour of spending on public services rather than tax cuts. Having
offered uncosted tax cuts at the last election, the Tories have now moved on to
the more credible ground of matching Labour spending on the NHS and schools. But
that shift has also blurred the difference between the two main parties. Oliver
Letwin, the shadow Chancellor, is reduced to asking people to vote for an
unsayable intention to cut taxes at some distant point in the future. Whatever
the flaws of Labour reforms, the Tories have not given the electorate good
enough reasons to vote against them.

Meanwhile, Britain's relations with the rest of Europe continue to be a Tory
minus when they should be a plus. Conservative policy on Europe is closer to the
views of most of the British people - regarding both the European constitution
and the euro as an unnecessary infringement of our national rights until proven
otherwise. But, as Heath, Jowell and Curtice comment in their political science
textbook on New Labour: "Situating oneself close to the policy preferences of
the median elector is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for
electoral success." Especially when the Tories are up against a Prime Minister
as ruthlessly opportunist as Blair, who has neutralised the euro and the
European constitution as election issues by promising referendums on both.

The question for Howard now is: by how much does he need to reduce Blair's
majority next year to survive? In 1987, Neil Kinnock stayed as Labour leader,
having reduced Margaret Thatcher's majority from 144 to 102. But the
Conservative Party showed in the coup that installed Howard last November that
it is capable of brutally dispatching leaders who are not up to the mark.

Or, at the age of 64 just after the likely date of the next election, will
Howard be too old? Interestingly, he gave the "wrong" answer to the question
about his future when he was interviewed for this newspaper last week. He was
asked what would happen if he did not win the next election and, instead of
saying that he did not contemplate defeat, he replied: "Then there are a huge
range of possibilities."

Conservative MPs are once again discussing those possibilities, ranging from
David Davis, who will be 56, to David Cameron, who will be 38. But simply to
rehearse the list should convince any member of the Tory party that the nature
of their problems is not simply, or even mostly, their choice of leader. The
party has to renew itself so dramatically that it leapfrogs New Labour - the
Portillistas were right about that, even if their choice of leader was flawed.
It is already too late for next year, but at least the Tories have five years to
get it right next time.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              10 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

THE DIARY

BYLINE: EDITED BY CHRISTOPHER SILVESTER Ronald Reagan with his first wife, Jane
Wyman, and their daughter Maureen in 1942 PA

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 827 words


The obsequies for Ronald Reagan were suitably fulsome, with one BBC newsreader
describing him as "a giant of the 20th century". For all his positive qualities,
we have it on the authority of his first wife Jane Wyman that Reagan was
fantastically pleased with himself. Back in the 1940s, when Reagan emerged as a
B-movie star, the Hollywood moguls, producers and stars who entertained at home
invariably had their own projection facilities and tended to promote their own
fare. Reagan was no exception. Jane Wyman told her friend Gregory Peck that the
main reason she ended their marriage was that "I just couldn't bear to watch
that damn Kings Row one more time".

Apparently, Reagan had insisted on showing Kings Row after virtually every
dinner party he and his wife gave from 1942 to 1947. The movie, now a camp
classic, featured Reagan as the second lead, and is famous for the moment when
his character wakes up to find that one of his legs has been amputated and
shrieks in despair: "Where's the rest of me?" But far worse than being a
self-regarding boor, Reagan was a notorious cheapskate. In the late 1940s, after
the end of his marriage to Wyman, he dated a young starlet named Jacqueline
Park. Their affair was conducted in secret: Park would take the bus and turn up
at his house, dinner would be ordered in from Chasen's, and then Reagan would
send her home by bus.

"I asked him for the cab fare because it was late," Park recalled, "but he said
I had to take the bus because he didn't have any small change.  All I have is
big bills,' he said... This routine went on for months and months, him calling
me and me taking the bus to see him. I became great friends with the bus
driver."

When Park got pregnant by Reagan, he disavowed any responsibility and told her
to "work this one out for yourself". Needless to say, she had to pay for her
abortion without any help from Reagan, who was already, as president of the
Screen Actors Guild, a powerful figure.

Reagan's meanness didn't extend to the public purse, however. Once elected as
Governor of California in 1966, he and Nancy lived during the week in the state
capital Sacramento while they maintained their house in Pacific Palisades, to
which they returned at weekends so as to socialise with their Beverly Hills
friends. On their LA housekeeper's day off, one of the Governor's staff
travelled the 377 miles from Sacramento to feed their dog.

The Prime Minister sent a message of condolence to Nancy Reagan praising her
late husband as a "good friend to Britain". But Blair wasn't such a fan during
the Reagan presidency. Not only was young Tony a member of CND but he also once
attacked "President Reagan's state-sponsored terrorism in Central America". The
attack came in a 1988 Early Day Motion, signed by Blair, which for good measure
accused Reagan of an "evil campaign against Nicaragua", a country which was at
that time under the rule of the Marxist Sandinistas.

Ka-ching! The Government has just blown another hundred grand on property
consultant fees in its search for premises for the new Supreme Court Lord
Falconer wants us to have. In the Lords last week, Falconer disclosed that he
has now spent pounds 200,000 on the hunt for a building in which to house the
court. It seems to have boiled down to two sites: the mock-gothic Middlesex
Guildhall and the new wing of Somerset House. When Falconer was last asked about
costs a few weeks ago, he had managed to blow only half that amount. Senior
lawyer Lord Ackner has his priorities right, at least. He wants to know if, once
they have been chucked out of the House of Lords, the Law Lords will be allowed
to go on using the canteens and dining rooms of the Palace of Westminster.

At an Oldie Literary Luncheon on Tuesday, Bob Marshall-Andrews, the QC and
left-wing Labour MP, regaled the audience with a tale about his vanity and how
it was recently deflated. He was being ferried to Heathrow airport in a taxi and
towards the end of the journey he noticed that the driver kept glancing at him
in his rear-view mirror. Marshall-Andrews sensed the dread moment when a
celebrity passenger is recognised by a cabby. Sure enough, just as the taxi was
approaching the entrance to Heathrow, the driver spoke up. "Give us a clue,
guv," he said. Marshall-Andrews sighed inwardly and leant forward so as to be
heard. "Well, I'm a politician and I make a lot of television appearances," he
explained. "I'm rather outspoken about Iraq, the war, civil liberties - that
sort of thing. Also, I've written a couple of novels." The cabby looked bemused.
"Not that, guv. I meant which terminal do you want?"

Alas and alack! Its new website is proving to be something of an embarrassment
to that organ of enlightenment, the Daily Mail. On election day, a poll of its
web readers showed support for UKIP ahead of support for the Tories, while
support for the BNP was ahead of support for Labour. So now we know.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              11 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 June 13, 2004

Tebbit: MI6 have moles at the top of 'subversive' UKIP

SECTION: STH1; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 215 words


MI6 AGENTS have secretly infiltrated the UK Independence Party, former Tory
chairman Lord Tebbit claimed last night.

The ex-Cabinet Minister told The Mail on Sunday that former intelligence
officers have occupied senior positions in the anti-Europe party.

And he said one of the moles helped mastermind last week's election campaign.

Lord Tebbit believes the intelligence services may be targeting the party
because its hard-line Eurosceptic views are regarded as a 'subversive' threat to
national security.

UKIP, which is expected to take numerous seats from the Tories when the European
Union election results are announced tomorrow, last night dismissed the
allegations as 'Tory dirty tricks'. But Lord Tebbit stood his ground, insisting
one of his sources was a serving MI6 officer.

He said two moles had worked for the late billionaire Sir James Goldsmith's
Referendum Party but moved to UKIP in 1997.

One has since left.

The alleged former MI6 officer still working for the party is understood to be
55-yearold senior aide Heather Conyngham. Last night she confirmed she had
worked for the Foreign Office, the Government department responsible for MI6,
but denied being a spy, describing the claims as 'ridiculous nonsense' and 'Tory
tactics'.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              12 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 June 13, 2004

Watch out for that pin, Clare

BYLINE: BLACK DOG

SECTION: M; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 365 words


PITY the poor Queen when she has to pin a CBE - one gong short of a dameship -
on the breast of Tony Blair's Downing Street hatchet woman, Clare Sumner.

Sumner executed Blair's sordid attempt to muscle in on the Queen Mother's
funeral. She was sent packing by Black Rod, Sir Michael Willcocks. Sumner is
said to be ready to quit Whitehall, the latest No10 rat to leave the sinking
ship.

In the good old days she'd be in the Tower.

VERY junior Health Minister Stephen Ladyman told a Commons reception: 'The big
announcements are made by my boss, John Reid. Ministers of State open clinics.
Under-secretaries like me are only allowed to open washing machines.'

Dane's Euro bond with UKIP boss

PRETTY Ditte Staun, the 27-year-old Dane who used to work under colourful UKIP
chief Nigel Farage, hopes to become a Danish Euro MP today. Ditte, left, has
fond memories of Nigel: 'I was there for a year and enjoyed it,' she says. 'We
had some interesting discussions of a political nature.'

SPEAKER Michael Martin clearly has a sense of humour. In security changes
ordered after the purple powder attack on Blair, his office has sent purple
gloves to staff who have to frisk visitors.

TORY chairman Liam Fox thinks BBC anti-Conservative bias is alive and well.

Foxy was fuming on local elections night after BBC Radio 5 gave him 23 seconds
of airtime in an hour-long show.

BLAIRITE hack John Lloyd has written a book trotting out spin doctor Alastair
Campbell's rants about media distortion and the use by hacks of anonymous,
off-the-record quotes. How ironic, then, that the book ends with four pages of
anonymous, off-the-record quotes which Lloyd says he has 'altered' to 'conceal'
the identity of 'a senior Cabinet Minister'. Take me to the vomitarium.

Cheeky Vincent isn't too blue for Howard

MICHAEL HOWARD'S drive to make the Tories more 'inclusive' knows no bounds.

Former Blue Peter children's TV show presenter Tim Vincent, who fronted the
Conservatives' Euro election broadcast, is a true blue in more ways than one.

His career has included hosting Mr Gay UK and posing nude, glistening with baby
oil, for a glossy magazine.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FRONT MAN: TORY BROADCAST 'STAR' TIM

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              13 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 June 13, 2004

labour's chairman mccartney faces axe after election disaster

BYLINE: JONATHAN OLIVER

SECTION: HI; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1107 words


LABOUR chairman Ian McCartney is facing the axe following the party's disastrous
performance in last week's local and European elections.

Senior Cabinet Ministers are urging Tony Blair to sack Mr McCartney in a summer
reshuffle after Labour's most dismal poll showing in two decades.

The embattled party chairman is being blamed for a lacklustre and negative
campaign which led to more than 400 Labour councillors losing their seats.

Although in theory Mr McCartney was in charge of election strategy, in practice
he was sidelined several weeks ago after concerns were raised over his poor
performance.

In particular, he was effectively banned from appearing on television and radio
amid worries that his heavy Scottish accent made it hard for him to be
understood by English voters.

Meanwhile, another Scot, Douglas Alexander, was quietly handed day-today
responsibility for the election planning. He has also proven to be an effective
media performer.

Senior Labour figures are tipping Cabinet Office Minister Mr Alexander to enter
the Cabinet as Mr McCartney's replacement as early as next month. But Mr Blair
may not promote the ambitious 36-year-old Paisley South MP because he is seen as
a close ally of Chancellor Gordon Brown.

'Douglas is amazingly capable,' said a Labour insider. 'But Tony may not want a
Brownite in such a powerful position going into the next General Election.

' One thing is for sure, though.

McCartney cannot survive. He has had his chance, but he has blown it.' Ian
McCartney's career began at the age of eight when he helped his father Hugh
campaign in the 1959 General Election. Educated at Lenzie Academy,
Dunbartonshire, and Langside College, Glasgow, he was said to be 'staunchly
socialist' at school and joined the Labour Party at the age of 15.

Mr McCartney, who has battled against illness, suffered a personal tragedy five
years ago when his son Hugh died from a heroin overdose in Glasgow, aged 23.

Meanwhile, Mr Blair last night came under fresh pressure from his Labour
critics, who blamed his handling of the Iraq crisis for the election meltdown.

Former Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said: 'The kicking was to send us a message
and what we need to do is to show that we have heard it.

'That message from many of those who withheld votes from us but would like to
vote Labour in the General Election was that they were very unhappy about what
happened with the war and they want to be sure that if they support Labour they
are not giving a blank cheque for this to happen again.'

Even current Cabinet Ministers acknowledged Mr Blair's disastrous Iraq policy
caused serious damage in the polls.

In a GMTV interview to be broadcast today, the Chancellor says: 'It is
disappointing and sad when you lose so many councillors. What we're seeing is a
midterm factor, plus, as Tony Blair himself has acknowledged, some questioning
about our policy on Iraq. Iraq has been an issue.' On BBC radio yesterday,
Environment Secretary Margaret Beckett said voters wanted to give Labour a
'sharp lesson' on Iraq.

Tomorrow, Mr Blair is expected to receive a rough ride at a Commons meeting of
backbench MPs, many of whom are openly calling for him to quit in favour of Mr
Brown.

But Downing Street aides will aim to move the focus from Iraq, where the Prime
Minister is vulnerable, to public services, where he is stronger.

If the local election results are matched in the General Election, the Tories
would grab 38 per cent of the vote, the Liberal Democrats 30 per cent, with
Labour on 25 per cent.

That would be enough to eject Mr Blair from Downing Street and put Conservative
leader Michael Howard within a whisker of a working majority.

War in Iraqwas not legal, says Foreign Office lawyer IN A further blow to Tony
Blair's standing, a former senior Government legal adviser who quit over the
decision to invade Iraq raised new doubts yesterday about whether the war was
lawful.

Elizabeth Wilmshurst resigned in protest after the Attorney General, Lord
Goldsmith, told the Premier the war was legal.

But speaking publicly for the first time, Ms Wilmshurst said yesterday that the
decision was not as clear-cut as the Government had suggested.

Mr Blair has said that a succession of breaches of United Nations resolutions by
Saddam Hussein gave Britain and America the right to use force to remove him.

But Ms Wilmshurst, a Foreign Office legal adviser for more than 30 years, cast
doubt on that assertion.

She said: 'Most international lawyers I met were of the view that the conflict
was unlawful.' Speaking on Radio 4's Today programme, she said: 'The issue is
whether the Security Council authorised the use of force in Iraq.

There is no question that there was no basis for the use of force in
self-defence.' Asked whether the Government came close to being advised it could
not go to war in Iraq without a new Security Council resolution, she said: 'I
don't feel free to talk publicly about this sort of thing.

I was a Crown Servant.' The Attorney General's final advice appeared to give
cover to the invasion.

But Ms Wilmshurst, who now works at the Royal Institute of International
Affairs, agreed that behind the scenes it was not an open and shut case.

Tebbit: MI6 havemoles at the topof 'subversive' UKIP MI6 AGENTS have secretly
infiltrated the UK Independence Party, former Tory chairman Lord Tebbit claimed
last night.

The ex-Cabinet Minister told The Mail on Sunday that former intelligence
officers have occupied senior positions in the anti-Europe party.

And he said one of the moles helped mastermind last week's election campaign.

Lord Tebbit believes the intelligence services may be targeting the party
because its hard-line Eurosceptic views are regarded as a 'subversive' threat to
national security.

UKIP, which is expected to take numerous seats from the Tories when the European
Union election results are announced tomorrow, last night dismissed the
allegations as 'Tory dirty tricks'. But Lord Tebbit stood his ground, insisting
one of his sources was a serving MI6 officer.

He said two moles had worked for the late billionaire Sir James Goldsmith's
Referendum Party but moved to UKIP in 1997.

One has since left.

The alleged former MI6 officer still working for the party is understood to be
55-yearold senior aide Heather Conyngham.

Last night she confirmed she had worked for the Foreign Office, the Government
department responsible for MI6, but denied being a spy, describing the claims as
'ridiculous nonsense' and 'Tory tactics'.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              14 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

We could lose next election, says Hain: * Key minister warns of Howard victory
'by back door' * Blair seeks way to reduce public anger over Iraq war

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff: Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 909 words


TONY BLAIR could lose the next general election unless angry Labour supporters
step back from the brink, a senior cabinet minister warned yesterday.

Peter Hain, the Leader of the House of Commons, became the first major figure to
admit publicly the depth of the trouble facing the government, after Labour was
forced into third place behind the Tories and the Liberal Democrats in local
elections last week. Until now the government has insisted that the backlash was
a mid-term protest vote that would evaporate.

Hain's remarks were made as it emerged that the Prime Minister may try to defuse
anger about the war in Iraq with a mea culpa over the failure to find weapons of
mass destruction.

Warning that the party had had too few answers to the Lib Dems, who wooed Labour
deserters by focusing heavily on Iraq, Hain said the third party was becoming 'a
kind of sponge for absorbing Labour discontent', just as Labour once did to the
Tories.

If such trends were 'even partially replicated at the next general election',
voters who thought they could protest-vote Lib Dem without sinking the
government would wake up to Tory rule.

'These people who think they get a free hit will find themselves with a rude
shock and a Tory MP. They could deprive us of our majority,' he told The
Observer . 'If this behaviour is reflected at the general election, it isn't
teaching us a lesson or giving a message. What it's doing is bringing Michael
Howard in by the back door.'

Along with other cabinet ministers, now circling their wagons around the Prime
Minister, Hain insisted Blair had emerged 'stronger' from his toughest year in
office and would be vindicated by history over Iraq. He conceded there was 'an
issue' over apparent differences between pre-war intelligence and the Iraq
Survey Group's inability so far to find banned weapons.

With the Butler inquiry into the handling of intelligence on Iraq due to report
next month, Downing Street is drawing up contingency plans. Many backbenchers
want the government to defuse anger by apologising, arguing that ministers could
concede that, while they acted in good faith on the best evidence against Saddam
Hussein, intelligence reports were not accurate.

Blair is understood to see no need for an apology and has argued publicly that
the broader pattern seen by intelligence services is unlikely to have been
wrong. But allies say Butler could, by concluding there were flaws in the
intelligence on which the government relies, give him a chance to clear the air.

'Tony's got a vehicle when Butler reports,' said a senior figure close to Blair.
'Butler will give him the opportunity to say, "This is the information I had
been given, the information we had is that this was reasonable", and draw a line
under it.'

Hain insisted the decision to invade Iraq would be proved to have been right,
but signalled the door is open to a tactical retreat on intelligence after
Butler reports.

'When the Butler inquiry outcome is known and when the Iraq Survey Group does
its final report, we will have to take stock, and if there are questions to
answer, then I am sure that we will answer them,' he said.

'I saw the intelligence like the Prime Minister did, and it was compelling to
me, and I honestly reflected that, as I think he did and we all did. There is an
issue there. There is an issue clearly to be answered.'

Robin Cook piled on the pressure yesterday by demanding that Blair rule out any
future war without UN support or at American behest. Downing Street aides argued
that would have ruled out intervention in Kosovo.

In a wide-ranging interview, Hain also signalled a new line of attack over
Europe after tonight's expected strong showing by the far-right UK Independence
Party in the European elections.

He said Labour would tackle over-regulation from Brussels 'which is just seen to
be prying into nooks and crannies of life', citing the decision to ban popular
vitamins and herbal remedies such as echinacea.

'I think there is unnecessary interference in, for example, dietary supplements
and food supplements and herbal remedies,' he said. 'Everybody understands that
they have got to be safe, but Brussels has gone about it in a particularly
bureaucratic and heavy-handed fashion.

'What Brussels should concentrate on is doing less better, not more worse.'

Hain said he was confident the government could win a referendum on the new
European constitution, expected to be signed at a summit in Brussels this week.

Labour pollsters were reported to be preparing for a 'hit' from the UK
Independence Party, which they believe could make significant inroads into the
party's vote.

Hain is preparing a strategy for combating the Liberal Democrat threat, painting
them as closet right-wingers on issues from council tax to their opposition to
Labour's children's trust fund - a nest egg to be given to every baby at birth,
to build assets for the poorest families.

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrat candidate for London mayor, Simon Hughes, is
calling for an inquiry into the number of ballot papers disqualified in the
election. It is thought that as many as half a million people cast their votes
in the wrong column.

The man who will clone us

Focus, page 18

PLUS: Observer Comment, page 26

Third term there for the losing?

News special, pages 6-7

PLUS: Observer Comment, page 26,

Andrew Rawnsley, 27


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

Howard faces plot by Tory Eurosceptics

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff: Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 692 words


MICHAEL Howard is facing a plot by right-wing Tories to force him into a harder
line on Europe if tonight's election results show voters deserting in droves to
the UK Independence party.

Eurosceptic MPs will take informal soundings among their colleagues tomorrow if,
as expected, the far-right party - which favours withdrawal from the EU - makes
a breakthrough in elections to the European Parliament. Privately, Howard is
resigned to getting a lower share of the vote than William Hague in the 1999
Euro elections, sparking a potential crisis.

The rebel group has been infuriated by pre-emptive strikes from pro-European
Tories calling for Howard to avoid lurching to the right just because of the
Ukip threat.

'I think a lot of people feel it's time now to say there is no need for the
party to make any genuflections to Ken Clarke and (the pro-European MP) David
Curry, because it's quite obvious where the electorate lies,' said a senior Tory
backbencher.

'There's no doubt about it now: the party membership is very, very Eurosceptic.
They're all on the borderline between the official Conservative position on
Europe and the Ukip position.'

While only 1 or 2 per cent of voters were pro-Euro Tories who would be upset if
Howard moved further to the right, '20 per cent are dropping off our Eurosceptic
edge to Ukip', the MP added.

Friends of Howard last night however insisted he would not budge. 'Ours is the
right position for the general election and we are not going to be toughening up
or lurching,' said one senior Tory.

'There may be a few headbangers on the fringe who will panic, but we are sure
that the position we have is right and the optimum position to be in.'

MPs are privately expecting Ukip to do less well than some polls predict,
bagging closer to 14 per cent of the vote than the 20 per cent Ukip itself has
been trumpeting. However, even that would be double their 1999 score, and the
early omens are alarming for Howard.

For the first time the party has broken through into domestic elections, bagging
two seats on the London Assembly - despite the long held convention that it is
strong in the rural shires rather than more liberal cities - and up to 12 per
cent of the vote in council seats where it stood, suggesting the depth of anger
against Brussels is deeper than imagined.

Richard Shepherd, the strongly Eurosceptic Tory MP for Aldridge Brownhills, said
last night that he was reserving judgment until the results were declared but
had seen evidence of a breakthrough for Ukip in his own constituency.

The party had finished a strong second to the Tories in three out of six wards
at the local elections, he said.

'They are overtaking both Labour and the Liberal Democrats and all the other
minor parties like the BNP. I assume they are drawing from a wider pool - it is
not just Tory votes by any means.'

Backbenchers who favour a stronger line on Europe - said to be spearheaded by
veteran Eurosceptics such as Sir Teddy Taylor, the Southend MP who is stepping
down at the next election, and the former shadow minister Bill Cash - are
expected to force the row to a head at a meeting of the backbench 1922 Committee
this week.

Demands could include new promises to renegotiate EU treaties if the Tories were
re-elected, seen as the obvious first step to withdrawing from the EU because it
would mean cutting ties with Britain's partners.

Downing Street hopes that a bad showing for the Tories tonight will distract
attention from its own woes. But a breakthrough for Ukip could potentially
damage prospects for pro-Europeans in other parties too.

Lucy Powell, campaigns director of Britain in Europe - likely to form part of a
'yes' campaign in the government's forthcoming referendum on the European
constitution - said a strong Ukip showing would be 'a wake-up call' for
pro-Europeans.

'We cannot take it as read that people in this country understand or are
passionate about Europe,' she added.

'Internal fractures exposed by the Ukip eruption illustrate that Conservative
unity is a brittle thing'

Andrew Rawnsley, Comment, page 27


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

ELECTION FALLOUT: After Thursday, the general election is there for the losing:
The Tories have bounced back but today's European results could spoil their
party. Meanwhile, can Labour learn from its mauling?

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff and Martin Bright

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2052 words


FROM the patio of Peter Hain's hilltop home, there are heart-stopping views
across the rolling valleys of south Wales. All is green and peaceful. A more
complacent man might feel master of all he surveyed.

But no Labour minister can afford to feel that way this weekend. After a
trashing by the electorate that has cost the party more than 460 councillors,
sent its citadels crashing in 'heartland' cities such as Newcastle and Leeds,
and frightened MPs who would be vulnerable on such a swing at the next general
election, there is little ground for complacency.

Charles Kennedy has pulled off an audacious coup in the north-east: the Tories
have bounced back in town halls that were not even targets, from Tamworth in
Staffordshire to Thurrock in Essex. Only London bucked the trend, re-electing
Ken Liv ingstone as a Labour Mayor. But even that is a dangerous precedent, if
nervous Labour MPs conclude that disagreeing constantly with Blair is a winning
survival strategy.

David Blunkett is 'mortified'. Tony Blair - stuck in Washington at Ronald
Reagan's funeral as the results piled up - is left appealing to his party to
'hold our nerve'.

As for Hain, he insists loyally that a year from now, voters will look back and
decide that while they may not have liked the war, it was worth it to turn Iraq
into a democracy. But he admits that after almost 15 years on a winning streak,
Labour is hitting its first really choppy waters: 'This is the first time really
that we have faced serious confrontation, that we have felt threatened, and I
think it's been a bit of a shock.'

It could have been worse: Blair's notoriously pessimistic pollster, Philip
Gould, privately warned him on the eve of polling that the Tories could hit 40
per cent, on course for Downing Street.

Their 38 per cent vote share - still a 12-point lead over Labour - was almost a
relief. Nonetheless, the official line this weekend is to stop panicking: this
is mid-term blues, Downing Street insists, a punishment for things past - Iraq,
abuses at Abu Ghraib - not a foretaste of the next election. Grins will be wiped
off Tory faces tonight with the results of the European elections, showing they
have lost ground to the UK Independence Party, and many of the worst losses were
to Lib Dems, suggesting voters are not flocking to Michael Howard.

After all, one Downing Street aide points out, Labour lost 800 council seats
last time and nobody demanded Blair resign: 'We are pretty irritated at the
insistence that this is the worst result in living memory. It's nothing like the
disasters we saw in the 1980s and 1990s, when it was Tory seats falling to
Labour.' Another Minister suggests Britain is simply experiencing the
'Europeanisation' of British politics, with the old two-party dogfight giving
way to a grouping of three or four contenders where each will hold a smaller
share of the vote than usual.

Perhaps. But another explanation for the curious voting pattern - Lib Dem
breakthroughs across the north, Tory triumphs in the south - is the emergence of
an infant tactical vote: a carefully exercised 'anyone but you' vote, of the
type that helped to bring down John Major but now being used against Labour.

At the very least it seems an electorate supposedly too dumb to understand its
new postal ballot forms is more sophisticated than anyone thought.

'If tactical voting is now about finding ways to dish Labour, then what happened
to us will happen to them - people will come from third to first to win seats,
they will look around and think "How the hell have we lost that one?",' says one
Tory frontbencher gleefully. If so, the loss of Brent East last autumn would not
be a one-off: prospects for the forthcoming parliamentary byelection in
Leicester South would look bleak.

Yet the odd patchiness of last week's votes - losing Newcastle, but not
Sheffield; fury over the war on the doorsteps, but no organised eruption of the
Muslim vote nationwide - suggests no concerted desire to dump Labour yet. What
seems instead to be happening is an attempt by angry Labour voters to shove
Blair in their direction. They are backing the Lib Dems - perceived as hostile
to George Bush, further to the left on public services - not because they want
Charles Kennedy in Downing Street, but because they want their leader to be a
bit more like him. Which gives them more in common with the Tories than they
think.

PINGING into carefully selected email boxes hours before polling stations opened
on Thursday, the letter came just in time. Written from Tory leader Michael
Howard to frontbencher John Whittingdale, it contained an urgent clarification
of the Tories' most Euro-sceptic current policy.

Fishing is an emotive subject for rightwingers and Howard has pledged to seize
back control of Britain's coastal waters by withdrawing from the common
fisheries policy.

But what he had not made clear enough for fishermen's groups, who influence a
significant number of rightwing votes, was what the Tories would do if the EU
rejected such demands. Within hours of hearing their complaints, Central Office
had emailed the letter to fishing activists' intranet sites, confirming that the
Tories would legislate to let themselves breach the Treaty of Rome over fishing
if necessary.

Arcane stuff - but to hardened Eurosceptics, it means one magical thing: a
direct confrontation with the EU, the first step to withdrawal.

Howard is taking no chances with Eurosceptic voters. Even if Ukip fails to reach
its predicted heights, it is still too close for comfort. However MPs report no
real appetite to put Ukip in Downing Street. 'They just want to teach us a
lesson and drive us in an even more Eurosceptic direction,' says one backbencher
gloomily expecting Ukip to do 'very well' in his constituency.

Another frontbencher confirms: 'People come up and say "Good to see you, we have
got to get these bastards (Labour) out, the country's going to ruin", and I say
"And on Thursday?" and they say "Oh, on Thursday we're voting Ukip".'

In other words, just as Labour rebels are trying to elbow their leader to the
left, the Tory grassroots are pushing theirs to the right. The danger for both
is that short-term protests can cause long-term damage, by reopening much older
splits in the party.

'The Eurosceptics will say it's because we haven't been Eurosceptic enough, and
the Europhiles will say it's all because we're so horrid about Europe, and we
are getting back into an argument that does not do any of us much good,' the
frontbencher adds.

Which is why fishing matters. Moderate MPs eye such moves to placate the Right
extremely nervously, arguing Howard should not be forced off the central ground.
'His idea of "live and let live" on Europe is quite a good one. But he made one
speech and thought it had got into the bloodstream, and it hadn't,' says another
frontbencher.

Howard's choice tomorrow will be simple - blink and change policy, or try to
outstare the Eurosceptic Right. But whichever he chooses will need to withstand
the white heat of yet another looming public debate over Europe.

THE briefing papers being quietly circulated among wealthy Tory donors this
weekend make grim reading in the run-up to Thursday's Brussels summit, where EU
member states are expected to sign a historic new constitutional treaty on the
future running of the EU. That will fire the starting gun for a Government
referendum to be held next year on whether to ratify the treaty. Within hours of
a deal emerging, the fledgling 'no' campaign - a coalition of right-wing
businessmen backed by the former Tory treasurer Lord Kalms and betting tycoon
Stuart Wheeler, a friend of the Howards - will begin an assault from which they
hope pro-Europeans will not recover.

If the polling in that briefing document is right, British reaction to the
constitution will range from ignorant indifference to active hostility. Focus
group participants are muddled about what it means - one thought it was about
'getting ID cards', while others confuse it with scrap ping the pound - but they
know what they think about the EU. Phrases like 'interfering', 'bureaucratic',
'slow' and 'getting shafted all the time' pile up.

A Ukip breakthrough tonight means a problem not just for the Tories, but also
for the government's referendum. In such a climate, how can Blair hope to
enthuse a sulky public over the constitution?

Hain, a former Minister for Europe, says he detects 'a Eurosceptic tide that we
have got to stop and take on', but argues it will be a greater problem for the
Tories. Certainly, the signs are the Nos will not have it all their own way.

Their own polling finds no majority support for leaving the EU, meaning the only
potentially successful message is 'yes to Europe but no to the constitution'. So
what if Ukip, high on a successful European election campaign, tried to muscle
in on the campaign with its clamour for withdrawal?

'Ukip may well feel it has got a stronger mandate if it does well in the
European elections,' warns Lucy Powell, campaigns director for Britain in
Europe, now gearing up for the 'yes' campaign. Could Michael Howard ever share a
platform with Robert Kilroy-Silk, the ex-Labour MP turned chatshow host turned
would-be MEP now stripping votes from Tory candidates?

IF THEY really want to break through, the 'no' campaign should probably ditch
politicians altogether. As the strategy document warns, voters are increasingly
fed up with all mainstream parties. It concludes that Blair will never sell the
constitution 'if the public connects their contempt for politicians with a "no"
vote being an opportunity to display that contempt'. The referendum-- just like
last week's elections - could become one big protest vote: another chance to
kick the government in the teeth. No wonder that Powell is recruiting
celebrities such as Eddie Izzard or Stephen Fry to front her campaign.

Unfortunately, Tony Blair has no such option. Instead, he will try to regain
domestic ground tomorrow with a speech to the Parliamentary Labour Party, in
which he will set out five-year plans for health, education and home affairs.

At a press conference on Tuesday, he is expected to talk up 'big ideas', from
choice in the NHS to road-user charging schemes to tackle gridlock. The Tories,
suddenly all too keen to discuss anything other than Europe, will be happy to
help shift the debate back to health and education.

There will be attempts, too, to tackle the broader disillusionment with
mainstream politics, exposed by the sudden popularity of fringe parties from
Ukip to the anti-war Respect party in London. The Commons modernisation
committee will publish a report this week on bridging the gap between the public
and Westminster.

And so long as calls for Blair's resignation remain confined to those with well
known views, such as Clare Short, Blair should be safe. Even if a growing number
of MPs believe they might lose their seats, few yet believe the party could lose
an election.

Nick Brown, Newcastle MP and close ally of the Chancellor, may have said
ominously that he would be 'discussing with friends' the losses in his home city
and elsewhere, and rumours linger of a union boss poised to declare that he is
balloting members on Blair's future, the first step to a confidence vote.

But there is little sign of a full-blown coup. Gordon Brown, who will rally
behind Tony Blair in an interview for GMTV today, has warned his supporters to
back off.

However, pressure from MPs for an apology over Iraq will only increase. Oher
awkward issues remain, from rising council tax - Deputy Prime Minister John
Prescott is still labouring over a review of local taxation - to campaigning
tactics on the ground.

If both Labour and the Tories draw the right lessons from their mistakes, both
parties could still boost their fortunes next year.

'There is clearly a psychological need to give us a kicking, but I think it
could even be good for us in the end,' says one Labour aide.

But read the runes wrongly and the consequences are dire. 'Michael Howard can't
get there on his own on this sort of performance. But he can get in through the
back door,' says Hain.

They have been warned.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

ELECTION FALLOUT: COMMENTARY: Oh, happy days ... now Howard holds the centre:
Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Tory ex-cabinet minister, believes that Thursday's results
herald a great renaissance

BYLINE: Malcolm Rifkind

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 702 words


THE FUTURE is not what it used to be. Watching Labour slump to third place in
the national vote brings a lump in the throat and a spring to one's step.

The true significance of these local elections does not, however, just lie in
the collapse of the Labour vote, delightful though that is. As Tony Blair has
been desperate to remind us in the past 24 hours, it is common for unpopular
governments to lose heavily in mid-term council elections and return triumphant
at the general election.

Much more ominous for Labour is the significant Tory recovery in London and the
Midlands and the ability of the Lib Dems to win in the north of England against
Labour - while these same Lib Dems are losing to the Tories in the south.

We are seeing a curious phenomenon. We still have a two-party system, but the
two parties differ in different regions and cities. It is Labour and the Lib
Dems that slog it out in Newcastle, Liverpool and Manchester. It is the Tories
who are increasingly dominant in the south of England and who are ousting Labour
from London boroughs and Midland counties.

It is, of course, in the south of England and in the Midlands where the bulk of
the population lives and where general elections are won and lost. Blair would
have expected to lose some middle-class voters back to the Tories, but if he is
also losing solid working-class communities to the Lib Dems, he is in deep
trouble. Labour is now being squeezed from both ends and has reason to be
distinctly nervous at the implications.

The Tories have every reason to be delighted. They now look likely to be able to
win back a substantial number of constituencies in the home counties lost to Lib
Dem MPs in the last decade. But we still have a long way to go to become a truly
national party. Notwithstanding Thursday's progress, we are still without a
single councillor in Manchester, Liverpool or Newcastle and remain painfully
weak in Scotland and Wales. The last time we were in opposition in the 1970s we
were winning by-elections in Walsall, Workington and Glasgow. If we want a Tory
government, and not just a hung parliament, the fragile shoots of Tory
renaissance in the north of England and Scotland and Wales must receive
nourishment and not neglect.

London has been another Tory desert, but not now. The Conservatives won the
popular vote in the capital, are the largest party on the Greater London
Assembly and gave Ken Livingstone a fright by running a much closer second than
anyone expected.

That leaves the European Parliament and the dreaded Ukip. We will know later
today how much of a nuisance they have become. But it is a nuisance and little
else. There is not the slightest evidence that the number of people who want
Britain to pull out of the European Union is any greater than it has been at any
time in the past 20 years. Ukip has run a splendid media campaign that has
persuaded lots of people that they can vent their frustration with Brussels in a
cost-free, risk-free way. It poses few if any dangers for the Tories at the
general election for two reasons.

Firstly, Tories now know they could actually beat Labour next year. This is
unlike 1997 when the party was in such a hopeless mess that voting for the
Referendum Party did not seem likely to make any difference to who would form
the next government.

Secondly, Ukip has done the Tories an unintended favour which Michael Howard is,
shrewdly, exploiting. Blair's whole strategy on Europe has been to try and
portray the Tories as extremists with a secret agenda to take us out of Europe.
This was always bogus, but the emergence of Ukip has scuppered Labour's plans.

Now it is the Tories who are seen to hold the centre ground on Europe, with Ukip
calling for withdrawal and Labour and the Lib Dems favouring the euro and
greater integration. The Tory policy of remaining in the EU but working to make
it a looser, more informal union is one that corresponds to the wishes of most
people in Britain. It will be attractive, in principle, but Michael Howard will
still have to work hard to convince the electorate that he could deliver it in
practice.

So let battle commence. Happy days are here again.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

The English identity crisis: who do you think you are?: Millions will cheer for
England in Euro 2004 today, but what does the country really mean to them?
Amelia Hill investigates the culture and contradictions of how we see ourselves

BYLINE: Amelia Hill

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1740 words


HAROLD ROBERTS considers himself to be one of England's last true Englishmen.
Now 74, he has been farming in the heart of land straddled by the Cotswolds and
the Bredon and Malvern hills since he was eight years old.

'I farm from 6.30 every morning to until it is too dark to see, every single
day,' he says. 'Every slice of meat or vegetable on my dinner plate has been
farmed by me.'

He used to own 60 acres in Worcestershire, the heart of England, but now has
only eight: his son has no interest in taking over the land and Roberts has kept
just enough to feed himself and his wife, Joan. 'My hobby now is attending the
sale of local farms,' he says sadly, breaking off from haymaking. 'I went to one
today. I don't go to buy anything, just to talk to the friends who are being
forced to sell up. One by one, we're falling by the wayside. Soon there will be
none of us left.

'I don't understand how anyone can feel English when they don't have a
connection with the English soil. The soil is my identity: it is as important to
me as contact with living people,' he adds, threading twine between thick,
calloused fingers. 'It is who I am, where I come from and, in the end, where I
will go.'

Not everyone has such a keen sense of their identity. A recent Mori poll showed
the English are deeply confused about whether to define themselves as English or
British, or whether their first line of allegiance should be to their
geographical region or even their immediate local community.

The question of what it means to be English has been asked with increasing
frequency and intensity in recent years, with a flurry of books and television
programmes debating whether the English have lost their national identity and
whether there is any longer such a thing as 'Englishness'.

But the debate has sharpened with the convergence of Euro 2004, the European
elections and the anniversary of D-Day leading to a dramatic growth in the
symbolic display and talk of Englishness.

According to one report, 30 million flags of St George have been sold in the
run-up to today's game against France in Portugal to be set fluttering from
every shade and model of car, driven by English men and women of every age,
religion, culture and class.

In one corner of a Worcestershire field, Charles Hudson has taken the flying of
the flag even further by planting a two-and-a-half acre carpet of delphiniums in
the image of the St George's cross. 'It is not remotely nationalistic,' he
laughs. 'It is pure English eccentricity with a bit of publicity nous thrown
in.' Hudson, who set up the Real Flower Petal Confetti Company five years ago,
aims to enter the Guinness Book of Record for the biggest carpet of flowers in
the world.

When the red and white flowers blossom this week, Hudson will employ up to 200
local people to pick them: 'I pay per pint of petals. Some people make £14 an
hour while others come to simply spend a day in a field of flowers and bring a
picnic. I can't image anything more English than that.'

ASIDE FROM THIS one brief flowering of national pride, however, there remains a
deep confusion about what it actually means to be English.

A few miles from Roberts's dwindling acres of farmland, 60-year-old Gary Andrews
proudly points out the extra land his asparagus crops will soon cover.

'The Vale of Evesham is the home of English asparagus and my family has been in
this trade for as many generations as I can remember,' he says. 'It is in my
blood and the blood of this area.'

Ten years ago his business was so bad that he steeled himself to closing up
shop. In the past four years, however, he has expanded his farm from 12 to 30
acres.

'There has been an increase in demand from the supermarkets for English produce,
which we have been able to meet by exchanging our native breed of asparagus for
a more hardy species from the Netherlands.

'But the biggest help has been this new population of immi grants, who will do
the harvesting that local people will not do for love nor money. I feel like our
Englishness has survived to fight another day.'

Andrews, however, voted for the UK Independence party in last Thursday's
elections. 'I see how it might sound odd,' he says, unashamed. 'I know I need
foreign help to keep farming and the Ukip will put an end to those workers
coming here, but Englishness is a delicate tree and I think, if we need to
pollard a few branches to protect the rest, it is worth it.'

Such preparedness to sacrifice national culture in the name of supposed
patriotism is proof of the scale of the identity crisis facing England, says
Paul Gilroy, London-born professor of Sociology and African American Studies at
Yale University and author of There Ain't No Black in the Union Jack and The
Black Atlantic: Modernity & Double-Consciousness

'There is an anxiety about what it means to be English today that has reached a
level of urgent inten sity in the past five years,' he says. 'We are returning
to a nativist interpretation of what England is, which can only lead to misery -
both for incomers being bullied into adopting a version of Englishness, and for
those born here, who are destined to be bitterly disappointed by eternally
unmet, unrealistic expectations.'

ANXIETY OVER WHAT it means to be English is not a new phenomenon: Daniel Defoe's
1701 anti-Tory satire, The True-Born Englishman , celebrated the qualities of a
'mongrel' nation while revealing a deep-seated fear seething among his
countrymen that their Englishness was being diluted and corrupted.

But after more then 300 years of asking the same question, many are now
beginning to voice their suspicions that, bar the white cliffs and the bad
weather, nothing is forever England and, however old the quest for the essence
of Englishness, the hunt is a bogus one, born of insecurity and delusion.

'Any coherent definition of Englishness was swept into a wider sense of
Britishness with the union with Scotland,' says Linda Colley , author of
Captives: Britain, Empire and the World 1600-1850

'Englishness is a new concept: a word that has only recently been invented. For
any people to try to pin down their identity as though it is a captive butterfly
is simply wrong: people are able to have more than one identity and the fact
we're returning to trying to limit ourselves to one identity is a sign of a
growing insecurity and uncertainty.'

Colley believes that the recent search for Englishness is the reaction of a
nation feeling squeezed out of existence by Europe on the one side, and by the
devolution of power to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland on the other.

The rebirth of core cities such as Birmingham, Bristol, Leeds, Liverpool,
Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham and Sheffield has, she believes, kindled
feelings of regional identity but done little for a nationwide sense of
Englishness except create a new atmosphere of intolerance.

It is a view powerfully rebutted by Sir Bernard Crick, author of George Orwell:
A Life and a book of political essays, Crossing Borders , who was commissioned
by the government to devise citizenship lessons for immigrants. 'There is
nothing to be ashamed of in trying to establish what it means to be English, any
more than there is something to be ashamed of by defining what it is to be
Scottish or Welsh,' he says.

'Englishness is something to be proud of and protected. A determination to
discover what Englishness is, is a sign we are ready to become stronger as a
nation. It was when we did not dare ask the question that we were weak.'

But the search for Englishness carries a more distinctive problem than the
search for Scottishness or Welshness.

'The England team is the only team playing in the world cup that is not a nation
state: there is no political or cultural outlet for England's feeling of
national identity,' says Mark Perryman, head of the LondonEnglishFans group.

'We don't know who we are: we're not British, we're not Scottish or Welsh. We're
partly the powerful nation of yore and partly dispossessed. It's an
extraordinary position to be in.'

This dispossession is why Professor Roger Scruton, philosopher and author,
believes the English are facing one of the most dangerous moments in their
history.

'If people don't have a social and an individual identity, they have no way of
identifying with their neighbours or anyone else. That way lies social chaos,
which is a potentially violent place to be.'

Sunder Katwala, general secretary of the Fabian Society, believes part of the
problem is that, while Britishness has been defined and redefined over the
generations, Englishness has remained untouched. 'We knew what Britishness was,
so it could be adopted, adapted and pluralised,' he says. 'This is why we have
British Asians but not English Asians.

'But far from being weakened by the lack of definition, the fact that we can't
define Englishness means we can still create it depending on what we want it to
be. That very nebulousness has enabled the English to absorb new cultures and
influences with fluid ease.'

TODAY IN PORTUGAL , Mark Perryman is doing his best to create his own definition
of Englishness by handing out postcards to local people of the St George's flag
with words 'Friendly Fans' translated into Portuguese written across it. 'We
want to reclaim the flag and the associations of Englishness; make them into
symbols and bywords for friendliness,' he says.

Such an act is, according to Julian Baggini, editor of the Philosophers'
Magazine , a sign that the English might finally be ready to stand on their own:
'The craving for certainty in any part of life is childish and misguided. We
have to get over that need if we are to mature as an English nation, comfortable
with its own uncertainty and ambiguity'

Handing out postcards in Portugal, Perryman believes the English are in a
position of unique power and opportunity. 'There is a great deal of clear space
on the flag of St George. It's all bare for us to write our identity on it as we
stand today and wish to stand in the future.'

While Perryman's postcards might not help us pin down the fluttering butterfly
of what 'Englishness' is, they might instead provide new and persuasive answers
to a more interesting and useful question: 'What is England for?'

Cross section: 30 million English flags have been sold for today's game. Getty


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

Comment: Leading article: The hidden truth of Thursday's vote: The voters
deserved better parties

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 427 words


THURSDAY'S COUNCIL election results represent a serious setback for Labour. It
came a miserable third with a share of the vote lower even than in the dark days
of Michael Foot's leadership. The core Labour vote haemorrhaged. But
Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are rightly guarded about their success. In
London, Steve Norris could raise only 25 per cent of first preferences for mayor
and Ken Livingstone won comfortably; the Tories did not win a single seat in
Newcastle, Manchester or Birmingham. This scarcely presages a Tory general
election victory. The Lib Dems, too, have reason for concern. Though they have
done well in the north of England, in the south, they were vulnerable to renewed
Conservative strength.

Without question, it is the Labour party that has most reason to be concerned.
Just as the Tories lost their reputation for economic competence on Black
Wednesday in 1992, when Britain was expelled from the Exchange Rate Mechanism,
so Tony Blair's decision to support the war in Iraq has created a large pool of
disaffection in New Labour. It may take some time to regain the confidence of
traditional voters.

The view of former foreign secretary Robin Cook is that Mr Blair should
apologise for taking Britain to war on grounds that later proved to be misguided
and promise that a third-term Labour government would not make a similar error.
This Blair cannot and should not do. He believes the invasion of Iraq was
justified. But he can and should signal that Britain's foreign policy will
respect the views of our European partners as well as those of America. He may
also signal that post-war planning in Iraq would have benefited sooner from a
more multilateral approach.

But the main lesson from the election results affects all three main parties.
They must be clearer about what they stand for and present themselves more
honestly. Labour is a modern, social democratic pro-European party and must
start promoting the social policies it believes in (and celebrating the
improvements it is effecting in these areas). Forward-looking Tories must stop
pandering to a Little England mentality that its main strategists simply do not
believe in. The Lib Dems must decide whether they want to be a genuine liberal
democratic party or remain the inoffensive alternative to whoever is governing
at local or national level.

Democracy needs marginal parties such as the Greens and UKIP who enjoyed some
triumphs in these elections. But it also needs it main parties to fight for
coherent positions with integrity.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

Comment: INSIDE POLITICS: Hammered, but not defeated: The large crumb of comfort
Labour can take from its local election drubbing is that the Tories are still
not a government in waiting

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1632 words


WHEN I sought an explanation for Labour's hammering from one of the Prime
Minister's strategists, he offered three reasons: 'Iraq, Iraq, Iraq.'

The Iraq Factor clearly was a large one in these awful election results for the
government. The war disaffected many of the party's activists as well as
alienating a slice of its natural supporters. For those who wanted to hurt Tony
Blair, here was their first electoral opportunity to administer punishment.
Labour MPs who went on the knocker have identified another, less remarked- upon
segment of the electorate who are discontented about Iraq for a different
reason. These are voters who think the Prime Minister has lost sight of Britain.
When they see pictures of him at the G8 summit, they do not see a world leader.
What they see is an absentee leader.

On top of that, Iraq has blotted out anything else the government had to offer.
The relatively better recent news, such as the agreement of the UN resolution,
came too late in the campaign to have much impact on people's impressions and
intentions.

Let us take a breath here for just a moment to savour how Number 10 has inverted
its tactics and flipped its spin. For weeks, they vainly tried to make Iraq fade
away as an issue. Mention anything, they urged, so long as it ain't the war.
Now, they choose to put Iraq in flashing lights. The war and the troubled
aftermath are being pressed into service as the principal alibis for their
losses.

The Prime Minister calls Iraq a 'shadow' and a 'cloud' over the government's
otherwise sunny prospects. The ever-loyal Tessa Jowell, speaking to me on Radio
4's Westminster Hour last Sunday night, went one dark noun further by describing
Iraq as a 'shroud'.

YOU CAN AGREE that the war was a big problem for Labour while also noting that
this is a highly convenient escape clause for the government. Ministers can try
to convince worried Labour MPs - at any rate, Ministers can seek to persuade
themselves - that these results are a special case, a freak, the consequence of
unique circumstances unrepeatable at the general election.

I even hear it suggested that the worse the results, the better it is for the
government. The argument is that this has been a moment of national catharsis.
The elections were a purgative for all the anger, division and bitterness about
Iraq. Government, party and public can now move on. So defeat is really victory.
George Orwell would have treasured that.

It has been obvious for weeks that the local and European elections were going
to be wretched for the government. This very expectation of a battering made a
difficult campaign dire and a bad result even worse. Anticipation of defeat was
demoralising for the foot soldiers, the more so when their generals hid behind
their desks in their Whitehall chateaux.

The re-election of Ken Livingstone gave him the opportunity, which the mayor of
London naturally seized upon with relish, to lecture Tony Blair and Gordon Brown
about how to beat the Tories. There may now be a game of hunt the scapegoat for
Labour's defeats.

It will not be fair, though it would be typical, for guilt to be assigned to
some junior figure. None of the party's senior characters was willing to take
charge. There was no ferocious power struggle between Number 10 and the Treasury
to control a losing campaign. Neither Prime Minister nor Chancellor wanted to be
left holding the tar baby.

That put the Labour election effort on a fatalistic course which concentrated on
accentuating the negative about the Conservatives. Blairistas will argue that
the dismal outcome exposes the weaknesses of the strategy associated with the
Chancellor of rehashing the approach to the 2001 election by concentrating on
'Labour spending versus Tory cuts'.

Brownites will mutter that what these results most vividly illustrate is that
the Prime Minister has turned from a vote-winning magician into a
vote-destroying one. This is why the Iraq alibi is a risky one for the Prime
Minister. Iraq, Iraq, Iraq means Blair, Blair, Blair.

His allies say they don't sense a resumption of the crisis talk about his
leadership. They think that bubble has already burst. But they do not sound
entirely confident that this is so. They were relieved that the first person to
tell Tony Blair to quit was Clare Short, for approximately the 999th time. She
has made it harder for others to call for his resignation and easier for the
Prime Minister to brush that demand aside.

His fightback plan is to try to emphasise the more positive messages about the
government which were held back until after these elections on the assumption
that neither media nor the voters would be receptive until the local and
European contests were over.

One former Cabinet Minister observes: 'To be honest, if I'd been in charge of
the campaign, it wouldn't have been terribly different. When you know you are
going to do badly, there's no point in showcasing new policies if it's going to
appear that they have been shot down in flames by the electorate.'

The Downing Street grid for the next few weeks, including the July spending
announcements, plans to have the key delivery Ministers unveiling their third-
term ambitions for reform of the public services. These ideas have been worked
up for some months. The bind for Number 10 is that it will be easy to interpret
a sudden rush of ministerial announcements as a panicky attempt to relaunch a
frightened government. The Prime Minister has postponed a big speech on public
services which was originally planned for this week.

The Conservatives are correct to say that it is an abysmal result for the
governing party to come third in local elec tions. Labour is equally right to
point out that for the Tories to get a voting share of less than 40 per cent at
this stage of the cycle leaves them a long way short of looking like a
government-in-waiting.

Even before the results of the Euro elections, which come in tonight, the UKIP
surge had Conservatives wobbling. The Tory wobble soon becomes the Tory
squabble. Pro-European Tories are blaming the phobes for creating a climate in
which UKIP can flower. The phobes claim that the answer is to be more
Kilroy-Silkian themselves.

The Tory leader seems to understand that a lurch towards what he has called the
extreme would only scare off middle- ground voters. He will try to hold the line
where he has already drawn it. But the internal fractures that the UKIP eruption
has re-exposed serve to illustrate that Conservative unity is a brittle thing.

Mr Howard also plans to promote his own policies after a Conservative campaign
of negativity summed up in the slogan: 'Let Down By Labour.' Negative will
always be a large part of what an opposition does. But these elections
demonstrate the limitations of a Tory strategy that concentrates solely on
bashing the government.

Kicking Labour is a lot less challeng ing than kicking them out. It is necessary
for the country to be disillusioned with the government. But that is not a
sufficient condition for the Conservatives to make the breakthrough that would
put them on course to be serious challengers for Downing Street.

The principal opposition party needs to be mobilising around its standard the
disenchantment with the incumbents. Instead of anti-government sentiment massing
behind the Tories, the Conservatives have had to share the spoils with a rainbow
of smaller parties to both the left and right of them.

THURSDAY was a referendum on the government. Voters gave Tony Blair a knee in
the ballots by supporting a spectrum of protest parties. The Tories were not
even the largest. That position still belongs, notwithstanding the increased
turn out, to the Stay at Home Party.

The next general election will not be a referendum on government. It will be a
choice between governments. The focus will shift back to the main protagonists
fighting on the central battlegrounds of the economy, tax and public services.
The fashionability of fringe parties fuelled by celebrity and protest will
fizzle out. We will be on the familiar turf of Labour versus the Conservatives
with the Liberal Democrats trying to squeeze the bigger two where they can.

Thursday's elections were billed as the largest test of public opinion since the
last election. A much better indicator of how the parties stand in relation to
the coming general election is the opinion polls. These are a more reliable
guide than mid-term local and Euro elections in which less than half of those
who could cast a vote did so.

I POINTED out three weeks ago that there had been 22 conventional opinion polls
published since Michael Howard became leader of the Conservative Party. Just two
of those polls had put the Conservatives ahead. However else Michael Howard may
have lifted his party since he succeeded Iain Whatshisname, he has not put them
ahead even during this terrible period for the government. Since my last survey,
a few more polls have been published. The government has continued to enjoy an
advantage over the Tories which has ranged from a slim 1 per cent to a
remarkably plump seven points.

When pollsters ask voters whether they are satisfied with the government, a big
majority of respondents reply that they are not. When they ask which party
people would prefer to form the next government, a sizable majority still give
Labour as the answer to that question.

It remains more than possible that Tony Blair can win a third term with a highly
comfortable majority at the next general election. He faces large challenges.
Among them is not yet a palpable threat of being unseated at Westminster by the
Conservatives.

The Government is down. It is not out.

a.rawnsley@observer.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

Comment: Europe makes minorities of us all: The re-emergence of 'Little England'
politics leaves young Asians baffled and alienated

BYLINE: Manoj Ladwa

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 818 words


I JOINED THE Labour party 10 years ago when New Labour was still new and its
policies were appealing to all those who believed in an inclusive, modern and
outward-looking Britain. As a young British Asian it was a vision for Britain
that made me feel optimistic.

The elections were an opportunity to assess how far the New Labour project had
progressed. I would have hoped that the government's delivery on public
services, the European constitution, and joining the euro would have been at the
forefront. Instead the terrible Iraq war and the tedious old debate of whether
we should be in Europe at all took centre stage.

The results are worrying. They have given ground to the UK Independence Party,
whose Little England theme provides an opportunity for the racists to come
through the back door. Michael Howard will now also think that the further from
Europe he goes and the more to the right he moves, the closer to Downing Street
he'll get. That's not the type of Britain I feel optimistic about.

The failure of politicians to engage young people in the big issues has been a
concern for years. Young Asians have felt particularly alienated. The election
results and the rhetoric that preceded them will not raise their hopes of being
reconnected.

I recall a conference I attended last year at the House of Commons for young
British Asians. One of the keynote speakers was a Labour MEP who for most of his
20 minutes spoke out for a fairer but firmer immigration policy. I agreed with
his every word. However, he did not get the same applause from this audience as
he would have expected for a similar speech say 20 years ago.

Like many others, I was astonished that as our representative in Europe he did
not even bother to mention the most important social, economic, and political
issue of our generation - Britain's position in Europe. It was at the forefront
of our minds, but clearly not his. I could not help thinking that an opportunity
had yet again been missed by a politician to connect to the real issues and
aspirations of young Asians.

I believe most British-born Asians feel increasingly let down and uninspired by
such politicians who still go into 'immigration autopilot' when they see a brown
or black face. Immigration is indeed the human face of globalisation and must be
addressed. But surely the descendants of Asian immigrants deserve also to be
actively engaged in the bigger debate of globalisation itself?

If the central challenge for the European Union is greater and more sustainable
integration between member states, then I only hope that our politicians start
to appreciate that British Asians have a lot to offer.

It is obvious that my parents' generation, the majority of whom came to these
shores in the late Sixties and early Seventies, had to work hard to integrate
with the so-called 'mainstream'.

FOR THEIR CHILDREN, my generation, integration is a reality we understand and
practise. We interchange easily and without thinking between Asian languages and
English at home, in schools, and the workplace. In the evenings we flick
effortlessly between EastEnders and Asian television channels while eating
fusion foods such as tandoori pizza and chilli chips.

Asians tend also to be the most travelled of Britain's ethnic communities. We
have on the whole maintained our religion and values but adapted our culture to
taste. We are therefore likely to be very comfortable in a further inte grated
Europe of many languages, cultures, and traditions. Britain's young Asians are
the natural pro-Europeans.

It is ironic that more than 50 years after India gained independence, there has
emerged such a thing as a UKIP. The party, filled with disenchanted Tory
right-wingers, is now desperate to save our beautiful island from foreign
domination. Regrettably, some immigrants to the UK appear to feel that they have
to 'prove' their Britishness by mimicking the views of Little Englanders such as
Kilroy-Silk.

The reality, however, for the majority of young British Asians is different.
They see Britain as their home and Europe as an exciting opportunity. I suppose
they view this opportunity much in the same way as their grandparents and
parents viewed East Africa and the UK decades ago. For them neither language,
culture, or history was a barrier. The pre-election posturing on whether we are
in or out of Europe is a stale debate for most of us.

In fact, one thing that young British Asians feel most frustrated about is being
constantly branded a minority in what they feel is their own country. We will
all be minorities in the new Europe. Alas, Mr Kilroy-Silk et al, we will have to
tolerate the damn foreigners a little longer and learn to live together a bit
more.

Manoj Ladwa is a solicitor and chief executive of Saffron Chase, a leading
ethnic public affairs consultancy

manoj@saffronchase.com


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

Comment: WITHOUT PREJUDICE: The Sangatte legacy: Labour's war on refugees was an
outstanding success. Unless you're still seeking asylum, that is

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1453 words


TOUR CALAIS and you soon wonder why the xenophobic right is so restless and
successful in Britain. New Labour seems to have delivered what its conservative
critics wanted and won the battle against the asylum seekers. Why the anger? Why
the passionate belief that 'they' have betrayed 'us' and abandoned control of
the borders to Brussels bureaucrats and liberal judges? The evidence from Calais
is that border controls have never been stricter except in war.

Where two years ago travellers from Paris on the Eurostar would see bands of
desperate men at the mouth of the Channel Tunnel waiting to jump the train or
march through to Kent like regiments of an invading army, today few get past the
barbed-wire fences and security cameras. The magnet which dragged refugees to
the coast lost its attraction when the Red Cross camp at Sangatte, a village
just outside Calais, was closed 18 months ago. Until then, the cynicism of the
slippery French authorities which wanted to push their refugees to Britain was
denounced daily in the morning tabloids and on the evening news. Today the
perfidy is forgotten as France gives a convincing impression of being as tough
as the Home Office.

In true modern fashion, Sangatte's civic dignitaries are seeking to rebrand and
relaunch their village, as a quiet stop for discerning tourists heading down the
coast road to Normandy. The mayor of Calais appears to have gone further and
imposed a colour bar. I've never seen another European city as uniformly white,
let alone another port. It's as if everyone has been bleached.

There are still asylum seekers knocking about, but their condition is testimony
to the success of the campaign against them. Numbers are everything in the
asylum battle, and nothing like the 67,000 who passed through Sangatte between
1999 and 2002 are in northern France. Local charities guess that about 200
refugees are wandering the country roads between Calais, Boulogne and Dunkirk,
camping in woods and waiting for a gap to appear in the walls of Fortress
Europe. They're a different type of asylum seeker from their predecessors.
Harder men, with the physical and mental resources to bide their time. The
graffiti on a derelict quayside warehouse emphasises their strength - 'Reza, the
strapping man' reads one defiant inscription. An Iranian bragged that he would
never give up trying to reach Britain. Even when he was old with a cane, he
would keep on trying.

Such boasts are the stuff of populist nightmares. But the fact on the ground
remains that there are only dozens in the Pas de Calais advertising their
defiance, where once there were thousands. At the refugee centre at the Church
of St Joseph, just off the road that takes the tourists from the ferries to the
booze hypermarkets, no one can understand why an English reporter has bothered
to pay a visit. Wasn't the real story two years ago?

'Well,' I mumble in terrible French, 'we've had elections in Britain dominated
by race and fear of foreigners and I want to find out if there are good reasons
behind it.'

Racism? Fear? They shrug. Same everywhere.

Helping refugees is a dangerous business in France. After Sangatte closed, the
office of the Calais mayor complained that charities were providing a 'focal
point' where people smugglers could meet clients. Their workers duly felt the
gendarmes' hands on their collars. Two Calais activists, Jean-Claude Lenoir, a
teacher, and Charles Framezelles - who, with that ready Gallic wit, has been
nicknamed 'The Moustache' because he has a moustache - have been banned on pain
of imprisonment from going near asylum seekers after being found guilty of
'assistance with the entry and the irregular stay' of refugees. It's not that
churches and others can't help refugees, but their volunteers have been a little
frightened since the convictions.

MEANWHILE, THE asylum seekers themselves need the guile and ruthlessness of a
special forces' commando when they move from the town's soup kitchens to the
docks. The high-tech weapons of the contemporary state are arrayed against them.
The British government paid for infra-red cameras and heartbeat and carbon
dioxide detectors to be installed at Calais, Ostend and Zeebrugge. If the heat,
pulse or breath of an illicit human being is discovered, the alarms scream for
the heavies to come running. If the police's technology fails, P&O's sailors
carry hand-held wands which scan the sides of lorries for traces of life inside.

And the machines which ferret out the human race from its darkest hiding places
do work with exemplary efficiency. Last year the number of people caught by
French frontier police trying to smuggle themselves across the Channel doubled,
while the number of stowaways caught at Dover halved. A refugee from Palestine
or the Sudan can still make it to Britain, but he would need money to buy false
papers and identities from the human-trafficking gangs, whose services are
neither efficient nor cheap.

Tony Blair is winning the battle to slash the number of asylum seekers. The
cleansing of Calais of unwanted migrants is a testimony to his success. Yet a
vocal section of the electorate is as furious about asylum as it is about Europe
and nourishes the indestructible conviction that it has been stabbed in the back
by the liberal elite. Are the UKIP voters, Tories, Daily Mail readers and
bawlers on radio phone-ins self-pitying fools? Are they too lost in their
over-fed emotions of grievance and resentment to open their narrow eyes and see
what has happened?

It's an attractive thesis and one which contains a good deal of truth. But for
all its plausibility, the public has been lied to, although not in a manner it
wishes to understand. The lie was heard thousands of times in the 1990s when
Labour and Conservative politicians and journalists announced 'we have nothing
against genuine refugees, it's only economic migrants we're against'. The truth
was the precise opposite. The government was and is desperate to keep out
genuine refugees and equally desperate to bring in economic migrants.

The turning of refugees into the great hate figures of the 1990s was inspired by
honest and dishonest motives. The genuine practical difficulty was that about
500,000 people applied for asylum in Britain between 1991 and 2001 - an
unprecedented number of single-minded and frantic people who would have strained
the bureaucratic resources of any government. The mendacity lay in the response.
The government has done its level best to stop all asylum seekers reaching
Dover: the genuine along with the bogus; the victims of persecution along with
the chancers. Any country from the Zimbabwe to Iraq which produced vast numbers
of refugees had visa restrictions imposed on it, but Britain wouldn't give visas
to asylum seekers.

Beginning with airlines when the Tories were in power, and then moving on to the
owners of ships, lorries, coaches and cars under New Labour, anyone found guilty
of carrying an asylum seeker to Britain was liable for a hefty fine. The fact
that the refugee in the back of the cab was a modern Anne Frank was no defence.
If you were carrying a visaless refugee you were guilty. Sangatte became a
magnet in part because Eurostar was the last travel company to have carriers'
liability imposed on it.

THE PUSHING of refugees into the arms of criminal gangs continues to this day.
Yet another New Labour asylum bill is before Parliament. It proposes to make it
a criminal offence for an asylum seeker to arrive in Britain without a genuine
passport. Genuine refugees often destroy their passports so that their
persecutors can't discover their identities. Or as Tony Blair said when Labour
was in opposition: 'The Secretary of State spoke about those who destroy
documents. That is not necessarily evidence of fraud. There may be good reason
why that happened.'

In the late 1990s, Blair, Jack Straw and Geoff Hoon won admiring headlines from
the right-wing press for their harsh approach, but in winning the battle they
lost the war. For years people have heard of the tough measures against the
demonised refugees then look around and see economic migrants everywhere: Poles
on building sights, Chinese picking cockles and Filipinos running hospital
wards.

Left-of-centre governments can't thrive in such a poisonous atmosphere. They
should try to change the climate by telling the public the truth that Britain
needs hard-working, well-qualified immigrants, and those seeking asylum include
men and women with both those qualities. Instead, Labour politicians have chosen
to ride the populist tiger and have no way of controlling where that rough beast
will take them or us.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 13, 2004

Sport Comment: FEAR OF FLYING THE FLAG

BYLINE: Kevin Mitchell

SECTION: Observer Sport Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 886 words


THESE ARE CONFUSING times to be English. Apparently. Not only is the sun
shining, it is casting a rare and warm glow over much of Albion's sport and, for
some jittery citizens, that is cause enough to break out in a guilty sweat.

These are the The Confused, post-empire liberals who draw complicated
conclusions from simple things. In an increasingly globalised and cosmopolitan
environment, they don't trust their compatriots to behave themselves in mixed
company, for a start. There is probably a psychological term for the condition,
covering that vast territory between disillusion and self-loathing.

At the heart of the confusion is the belief that sport embodies too many of the
ugly facets of patriotism, that most outdated of words. And, when you see a mob
rampant, it is hard to disagree. But that is the aberrant expression of a minor
malaise. It is not how millions of people act or feel about sport. The
revulsion, the unwavering suspicion is too simplistic, too sweeping.

Yet The Confused insist: better to lose than risk turning back into the sort of
bullying conquerors who painted the atlas pink. Better to come home early from
Euro 2004 than again be vilified as the vandals of Europe. Better to let someone
else get on with the vulgar business of being successful. And, for crying out
loud, can you imagine the outbreak of braying in Middle England if Tim Henman
actually wins that silly tournament in south-west London?

I find this odd. It ought not to be a crime to be happy about the performance of
an individual athlete or a team - whether it is your club or country - with whom
you are familiar.

It ought not to be awkward, either, for those not 'pure-bred' and homegrown to
be proud of the place they have adopted and whose colours they are happy to have
on their passport. How can liberals (from whose ranks The Confused are largely
drawn) rail against the Daily Mail 's disgusting baiting of asylum seekers and
yet argue that first-or second-generation immigrants would be better off, like
themselves, not supporting England?

When Dennis Skinner uttered his famous remark, 'Anyone but England' in response
to a question about what team he supports, the academic Mike Marquesee turned it
into an eloquent book on the subject. But, unless I read him wrongly,
Marquesee's point was that it is possible to support the land of your fathers as
well as Halifax Town.

Britain's only boxer at the Athens Olympics will be Amir Khan, a fantastic
talent who was born in Bury. 'It's a real positive thing for race relations in
this country,' he said on qualifying for the Games. 'I did have a chance to box
for Pakistan but I've lived here all my life, gone to school, all my coaches and
everyone's here and I feel English.'

Would The Confused be happy if the BNP or UKIP or any of the other right-wing
oddballs decided they could not support Khan at the Olympics because, actually,
they wanted to ship him back to Pakistan?

The players, of whatever sport, don't have to be your representatives, they
don't have to embody what you believe in by their actions, they don't even have
to be nice people.

But, no matter where they were born, they can make a whole country feel happy by
performing their athletic skills brilliantly. And, for the life of me, I don't
see what's wrong with that.

Have The Confused reason to worry? Will England's cricketers, rugby players
(yesterday's hiccup excepted), footballers, boxers, tennis players and sundry
others carry on winning? (Now there's a title Sid James and the boys missed.)

FOOTBALL HAS THE strongest grip on the national psyche. The little red-crossed
white flags are flapping in unison on the radio aerials of thousands of vans and
flash sports cars, kids are checking the Blu-Tac to see their their wall-charts
don't slip, and grown-ups everywhere are attaching to football a significance it
hardly deserves.

Yet tonight, if England falter against France, The Confused will claim they are
not worried, and profess to revel in the anguish that will descend on much of
the country.

They will put a philosophical shine on their cynicism and ask you to believe
that they don't care what happens to the national team because England attract
fascists and hooligans. Football has hijacked the flag and the nation's
sentiment. They will say, ever so reasonably, that football is all about greed,
skulduggery, excess. It is a world of devious agents, overpaid players and
conniving chairmen. It has lost its soul.

Much of this is true. But what is just as relevant - and will remain so for as
long as small boys are drawn to kick a rolling ball - is that football is also
the loveliest of harmless diversions.

It is why the millionaires still play it. It is why billions of people around
the world will be watching the European Championship. It is why, whatever the
protestations of the cynics, the overwhelming majority of people on this island
will be pretty bloody pleased if England stuff France tonight.

A few people will get arrested. A lot will wake up with hangovers. Nobody, I
hope, will get killed. It is not D-Day.

I know a member of The Confused. He swears he won't be watching the game
tonight. But I would bet large amounts that he will be checking Ceefax before he
goes to bed.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

Clever Dick, the UKIP secret weapon

BYLINE: Richard Woods

SECTION: Features; News Review 3

LENGTH: 719 words


The ballot papers have been lying in secure storage for three days. Later today
their secret will be revealed: just how far out of love have the British people
fallen with the European Union?

One man predicts that the Euro-election results will show that Britain is on the
path to eventual withdrawal. Dick Morris, the American election strategist who
masterminded victory for President Bill Clinton, was the brains behind the
United Kingdom Independence party's campaign. Right up to the line, he expresses
optimism that his blueprint for UKIP will pay dividends.

"Water finds its own level and the British people have a huge pent-up animosity
for the EU," he says. "Yet their political system has not, until now, given them
an opportunity to express that animosity."

The problem facing Eurosceptic politicians is that each voter who opposes
Brussels appears to do so for a different reason. Some are opposed because of
agricultural and fisheries policy; some because of immigration; some because
Britain pays the EU more than it gets back; some because of the lack of
democracy in Brussels.

Morris's mission has been to try to enable all of these disparate voters to
coalesce around one party.

The question was how to encapsulate and harness all that discontent. "The party
is a very cerebral group with a lot of policy people who are fond of elaborating
at great length on the defects of the EU." As an outsider, Morris was able to
help UKIP's leadership see "that in this case less would be more".

As a strategist who is used to working in an environment of 30-second campaign
commercials (as against the five-minute party election broadcasts seen in this
country), Morris alighted on a concept that was brash in its simplicity.

"The first strategic suggestion I made was the idea of 'No'," he says. "It
captured all the reasons why people don't like the EU."

Thus it was that UKIP's posters and newspaper advertisements were all dominated
by the blunt message: "Say No to European Union." The only tinsel on the
wrapping was the conversion of the "o" in "no" into the stars of the EU.

"An articulation of the reasons for opposing Brussels would have undoubtedly
left many things out, and I felt it was important that the campaign did not
limit people's vote but expand it," explains Morris. "The word 'No' became a
kind of tabula rasa on which everybody could project their own reason for
opposing Brussels.

"UKIP does not really stand for a range of policies. It stands for
self-determination. I don't think the issue, for example, is whether to allow
immigration or not. The issue is that decisions on immigration, or any other
matter, should be made in Westminster, not Brussels."

The second string of the UKIP campaign was a traditional one: bring in the
endorsements of celebrities. Though Morris was not in the forefront of this part
of the campaign -Robert Kilroy-Silk does not play big in Washington DC, where
Morris is still based -he fully backs the thinking behind it. He says that
Kilroy-Silk and Joan Collins enabled the party to make it into newspapers and
onto television stations which, he feels, would have otherwise shunned UKIP and
its anti-Establishment message.

Morris does, of course, leave himself open to criticism: after all, what right
does an American political beast have to stomp through the British political
landscape?

And, in any case, his own political track record is not entirely unblemished.
His career with Clinton came to a halt in 1996 when he was caught with a
prostitute in a Washington hotel.

He says he agreed to help only because he was asked, by Roger Knapman, UKIP's
leader. But he says he has long felt moved by "the anti-democratic procedures of
the EU".

Indeed, his Euroscepticism may even go further than the ideologues who run the
party whose campaign he has masterminded. For to Morris, the battle against the
EU -and organisations like it -is more crucial than the war on terror.

"I believe that globally the successor to fascism and communism is not
terrorism; the successor is bureaucratism, the power of bureaucrats to ignore
public opinion, whether that is manifest in the International Monetary Fund, the
World Bank, the EU or any of these supernational organisations run by their
staff."


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

I couldn't give an X to any of that rabble

BYLINE: Alan Massie

SECTION: Features; Scotland News 20

LENGTH: 1163 words


It's a civic duty to vote; but I didn't. Except when living in Italy in the
1970s, I have always voted in elections and referendums, at least since my
careless twenties. But last Thursday, I just couldn't bring myself to enter the
polling booth. I ought to feel guilty, but I don't.

Of course I'm not alone in having shunned the polls. We shan't know just how
many chose to vote in the European elections until this evening or tomorrow, but
the likelihood is that two out of every three of us abstained. Nor is this
indifference confined to Scotland or, indeed, the United Kingdom. The number
voting will have been low in most of the old member states of the European
Union.

In one region of southern Germany, the turnout was expected to be only 20%.

It's not just Europe and European elections of course. Only about half of us
voted in the Scottish parliamentary elections last year, and only about 60% in
the general election of 2001.

The vote that past generations clamoured to have is now disdained. We can't be
bothered.

Of course, particular reasons for a poor turnout can be advanced on each
occasion.

The European parliament is comparatively insignificant. It is remote and its
powers are limited. So why bother?

Moreover, this time we were denied the opportunity even to vote for an
individual, whom we might, just possibly, think well of; or indeed against an
individual of whom we disapprove. We could vote only for a party list.

Some don't vote because they say there's nothing to choose between one set of
rascals and the other. There's something in this, though less than is often
supposed. Differences between the parties do exist, and though these differences
affect our lives, there is something in the commonly held opinion that it's a
waste of effort voting.

The reason, never perhaps clearly articulated, is persuasive. The state has
outgrown politics. Whether the administration is based in your local council
offices, in Edinburgh, in Whitehall, or in Brussels, it is now so powerful and
so persuasive that it appears effectively to have escaped democratic or
political control. We are governed more by officials than by elected
politicians. This perception accounts for our loss of belief in liberal
democracy.

There are still issues that arouse us. The Iraq war has evidently been one such.

Some of the parties even tried to make Iraq the big issue of this European
election, despite its irrelevance to it. A vote for Labour, it was suggested,
was a vote of approval for Tony Blair's war.

Indeed, the European election seemed little more than a glorified opinion poll,
unless you chose to vote for the United Kingdom Independence party, the only one
that fought the campaign on a European issue.

That was respectable, even if I was in absolute disagreement with the UKIP's
policy of taking the United Kingdom out of the European Union. Some said it was
illogical to put up candidates for election to the parliament of a body from
which you intend to secede, but this is nonsense. After all, the SNP and Sinn
Fein and, possibly, Plaid Cymru have been doing that for years in Westminster
elections.

In as much as I deplore the UKIP's programme, that would have been one reason
for voting, if only to register one more vote in the balance against the UKIP.

But given that the election results would be interpreted by the parties and
pundits as representative of each party's standing in this glorified opinion
poll, who was I to vote for?

Normally I vote, if often only with reluctance, for the Tories. But inasmuch as
I am a Tory, I am also that increasingly rare sort: a pro-European, a Ken Clarke
Tory, one who intends,

if we ever come to a referendum on the proposed EU constitution to vote "yes".

Now, while it is true that Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, has ruled
out British withdrawal from the EU, and had harsh words for the UKIP,
nevertheless, he nd his party are now profoundly Eurosceptic, participating
grudgingly in the affairs of the EU, giving the impression that they wish the
whole enterprise would collapse.

Since I have no sympathy with this attitude, though some understanding of why so
many of my Tory friends think like this, I couldn't bring myself to cast a vote
that implied approval of the Tory party as it is now. In the matter of Europe,
the Tories aspire to a condition of demo-virginity, neither one thing nor the
other; a feeble, and ultimately contemptible, condition. Actually also, an
impossible one.

Labour is, officially at least, a pro-European party. It will recommend a "yes"
vote on the constitution, if Mr Blair gets the assurances he seeks. So it was
tempting, for once, to vote Labour. But then I paused. I thought of the Iraq
war, which I was not in favour of. I thought of our extravagant and incompetent
chancellor wallowing thigh-deep in the rising tide of public debt. I thought of
the Scottish executive. Enough said.

How again could I cast a vote that seemed to imply approval of all that? It was
impossible.

Equally impossible to vote Liberal Democrat. Once, long ago, in my idealistic
youth, I voted Liberal, back in the days when Jo Grimmond, whom I admired, was
party leader. But never since.

It's true that, first as Liberals and now as Liberal Democrats they have been
consistently pro-European. But the Lib Dems' sanctimoniousness, their conviction
or moral superiority, sticks in the gullet.

Besides, to vote Lib Dem was also again to express, at least implicitly,
approval of the record of the Scottish executive. That would never do.

I never considered, seriously, either the Greens or the Scottish Socialist
party.

Neither needs nor deserves any encouragement.

That left the SNP, and, yes, I did consider that option. It's true that the
party's European record has been, to put it mildly, inconsistent. Twenty years
ago it was for withdrawal, and there are indeed still Nationalists who mutter
that there is no point in freeing ourselves from the chains of Westminster only
to be bound by the shackles of Brussels. But, officially, the SNP is
pro-European and has been so since Jim Sillars gave them the campaign slogan
"Scotland in Europe".

Moreover, inasmuch as specifically Scottish interests may arise in the European
parliament, and SNP members may be relied on to defend these interests strongly,
perhaps more strongly than members of other parties, if only because they are
more likely to be able to tell when such interests are not always identical.

So the temptation to vote SNP was quite strong. But then one came back to the
realisation that this election was being seen as

an opinion poll; and with that realisation came the thought: do I want to
encourage the SNP? Answer - no.

So I stayed at home and got on with some work, and, sadly perhaps, though I have
often written urging that it is our duty to vote, I didn't feel guilty. A plague
on all their houses, I say.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

Fight the Irish corner

BYLINE: Damien Kiberd

SECTION: Business; Eire Business & Money 4

LENGTH: 1312 words


IT IS suggested that the incoming Dutch presidency of the European Union favours
a Franco-German proposal for a single, harmonised rate of corporation profits
tax for all member states, something of the order of 20%. If there's one thing
this government should do before relinquishing the presidency of the EU at the
end of this month, it is to lay down a marker that it will block any such
proposal. We will stick with our 12.5% rate thank you, that's why our economy
will grow by 6% this year.

Today, when we are counting the votes that will determine which 13 candidates we
will return to the 732-strong European parliament, would be a good day not just
to announce that we will veto any common profits tax, but to pledge ourselves to
a single rate of income tax in our own country within the lifetime of the next
government.

In short, we should up the ante. We have nothing to learn from a Europe that has
turned its back on economic reform. We have cut profit taxes. We have cut
capital gains taxes. We have kept public spending below 30% of gross domestic
product and -unlike in the rest of the eurozone -we are powering ahead.

Sadly, any prospect of meaningful reform of EU market policy disappeared when
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, a Spanish socialist, supplanted the Aznar
government in Spain in the wake of the Madrid bombings last March.

Governments on the left and right across Europe are running scared that voters
in affected countries will rebuff proposals for a longer working week in
Germany, for stricter pension eligibility rules in France and for an extension
of the retirement age from 55 years to 60 years in Italy. The French right,
under Jacques Chirac, appears to regard market reforms as a Thatcherite disease.

If Ireland stands up to the Euro- bullies and persists with its drive towards an
American-style economy, it may find strange allies. The two main Eurosceptic
groups in the last European parliament - the EDD and UEN -had just 48 seats. But
a new wave of sceptics is rolling across Europe. The UK Independence party seems
to be on the up but the real momentum is coming from the east.

In Poland, the Self-Defence party and the League of Polish Families could get as
many as 20 seats out of the 54 available, while in the Czech Republic a party
called the ODS, which mixes extremely liberal economic ideas with an antagonism
to bureaucracy, is a market-leading brand at 27%.

Don't give up hope. Those "old Europeans" who think it is normal to spend close
to half of a state's gross domestic product through the exchequer may shortly
face stiff opposition.

The slew of optimistic growth forecasts for the Irish economy published in the
past week should be measured against a near-sclerotic eurozone growth rate of
1.5% for this year followed by an optimistic improvement to 2.25% in 2005.

The Irish forecasts -ranging from 3.5% to 6% this year -indicate clearly that we
have aligned ourselves in Europe with a club of losers, a group of nations that
are rich and complacent and unwilling to embrace reform.

Germany, the so-called engine room of Europe, is in dire trouble. It's not just
the 5m people out of work or the 500,000 notified redundancies last year -it is
the fact that growth has averaged 1.4% per year for the past decade.

With Germany accounting for a fifth of the EU population and a whole lot more in
terms of annual output, is it any wonder that the EU is such a laggard?

At one point, following its post-war success, German output per capita was 20%
higher than the EU average. Now it is lower than 11 of the 15 members states
that preceded enlargement to 25 nations.

Given this background, the pressure on Ireland to increase its corporation
profits tax rate is not going to abate. In fact, enlargement makes it an issue
of top priority for the masters of Europe. This is because Estonia taxes
retained profits at 0%, while Lithuania at 15% and Latvia at 19% and even
Britain at 30% believe in friendly treatment of wealth creators. Compare these
rates with the existing 35.5% in France and 38.7% in Germany and you get at
least part of the picture.

The Germans won't just be losing jobs, enterprise and tax revenue to Ireland
(and in particular to our financial services sector), they will also be losing
jobs to Tallinn, Riga and Warsaw. The clamour for "qualified majority voting" to
extend to tax policy will grow, not lessen.

If you need proof of the extent to which rich, complacent central Europe will
resist market reform, look no further than the disparate policies adopted in
various labour markets as the EU enlarged. The British and the Irish said that
east Europeans could come to work, though with stricter rules on welfare claims.

The central Europeans pleaded for a seven-year derogation. Germans like their
35-hour week and six weeks' paid leave. Italians like their pensions at 55
years.

Even with the most benign global economic environment, the four key economies of
the eurozone -Germany, France, Spain and Italy -will struggle to notch up growth
of 1.5% this year, a performance that will be dragged up by that of Spain.

Don't expect the arrival of 75m more people into the union to boost growth rates
either. Labour mobility will be constrained in central Europe but, additionally,
authoritative studies have shown that as much as 95% of the potential trade with
the "accession countries" was liberalised as far back as 10 years ago.

In three years' time, we will probably be getting about 0.3% of our GDP in the
form of receipts under the common agricultural policy. We will also, in all
probability, be positive net contributors to the EU budget to the extent of
about 0.75% of our GDP.

We should not wait around expecting the Germans, French and Italians to reform
their markets. Rather we should push ahead with the US-style policies that have
made us a success. A single rate of income tax would give a massive lift not
just to work incentive, but to the efficiency of the tax collection system.

Anybody who thinks it is an unrealistic proposal should track what happened when
we halved capital taxes at a stroke and when we got EU agreement for a uniform
rate of profits tax of 12.5%.

PS: Business leaders should watch out. They are now the targets of choice for
local government-based stealth taxers. Research published in recent days by the
Chambers of Commerce of Ireland and by employers' lobby group Ibec shows that
the cost of commercial rates, water charges and "development levies" is
escalating at a rate which bears no relation to underlying inflation.

Between 2000 and 2004, the cost of 1,000 gallons of water has gone from E3.50 to
E6.54 in Dun Laoghaire, from E2.60 to E5.96 in Fingal, from E3.77 to E5.73 in
the Dublin city council area and from E2.74 to E5.08 in south Dublin. The same
is true across the country. The Limerick city charge is up from E2.29 to E5.39
and Galway from E2.03 to E4.75.

Urban areas are again being hammered when it comes to development levies.
Limerick county council, for example, applied the highest levy of E116.55 per
square metre (E382.38 per square foot) with Dublin city council coming in at
E110. Dun Laoghaire and Fingal apparently charge E100 per square metre, as does
Limerick city.

The scale of the charges appears arbitrary. Cavan, Leitrim, Waterford, Clare,
Longford and Offaly all charge less than E30 per square metre, while Donegal
charges a lowly E12.50.

Just remember it costs a whole lot more to deliver services such as water and
sewage to remote rural homes. Business is clearly seen as a soft target by the
local councillors who were elected yesterday.

In the capital, commercial rates have risen by twice the level of inflation
through the past decade. This is a real competitiveness issue and one that needs
to be stamped out now.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Irish outlook; Business analysis; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              27 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 13, 2004

KILROY KILLS BLAIR'S EUROPE DREAM

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer and Tim Shipman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 4

LENGTH: 451 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk last night vowed to kill off the new EU constitution.

And he warned Tony Blair that signing up to a federal superstate this week would
"show contempt for the British people".

The warning came amid widespread expectations that the results of the European
elections - to be announced tonight - will deliver a near-fatal blow to Mr
Blair's European dream.

A majority of voters are likely to have backed parties opposed to the new
constitution. Sources claimed that Mr Kilroy-Silk's UK Independence Party is set
to win a shock 20 per cent of the vote across England and Wales, with the Tories
polling above 35 per cent in the whole of Britain.

Mr Blair will face a stark warning from both UKIP and the Tories tomorrow that
he cannot put "two fingers up" at the British people and sign up to the
constitution if more than half the country has already voted against it.

The Prime Minister will travel to Brussels later this week for a crucial EU
summit to agree the final draft of the constitution despite the expected massive
backlash against handing over key powers to the eurocrats.

Last night Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram said: "Tony Blair has failed
to listen to the people of this country - to his cost in the local elections.

"He had better listen to them now and go to Europe this week to say 'No' to the
constitution."

Mr Kilroy-Silk's high profile campaign for UKIP has been credited with boosting
the party's fortunes since the former Labour MP and TV presenter joined their
ranks.

It is predicted that he will push Labour into third place in the East Midlands
region, where he is standing as a candidate for the European parliament.

And at a meeting tomorrow, senior UKIP figures are planning to install Mr
Kilroy-Silk as leader of the party so he can lead their fight against Europe.

The Sunday Express has also learned that British business leaders are preparing
to launch a hard-hitting and well-funded "No" campaign if Mr Blair signs up to
the constitution.

In an exclusive interview with the Sunday Express, Mr Kilroy-Silk said yesterday
that he is already plotting with UKIP's allies in other EU countries to kill the
constitution stone dead.

He said: "There's no way that Tony Blair can go ahead with the constitution.
That would show contempt for the British people. I will be at the heart of the
campaign that will defeat the Government in a referendum."

Mr Kilroy-Silk has confirmed that he is also considering a return to
Westminster.

He could stand against high-profile pro-European Tory Kenneth Clarke at the next
General Election or perhaps contest a byelection in his native Birmingham this
summer.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              28 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 13, 2004

TORIES AND UKIP DELIVER A STARK WARNING BEFORE CRUCIAL SUMMIT ON HANDING OVER
POWER TO BRUSSELS; BLAIR WILL COURT DISASTER IF HE COMMITS BRITAIN TO EUROPEAN
CONSTITUTION

BYLINE: By Julia HartleyBrewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1021 words


TONY Blair will face a nationwide backlash if he signs up to the EU constitution
in Brussels this week after voters deliver the expected firm "no" to the
controversial treaty tonight.

The Tories and the UK Independence Party will deliver a stark message to the
Prime Minister tomorrow, ahead of a crunch EU summit, warning him of a massive
backlash if he goes ahead with handing over crucial powers to Brussels.

A majority of Britons are believed to have voted for parties opposed to the
constitution in Thursday's European Parliament elections. The results, to be
announced tonight, are expected to show that more than 50 per cent of voters are
against the constitution.

UKIP are set to launch a major poster campaign against the treaty ahead of the
summit, when EU leaders gather on Thursday to agree a deal on the final draft.

Downing Street insisted last night that the Prime Minister will not be "held to
ransom" by the result and said his hands were not tied by the vote. But the
Tories warned that Mr Blair should listen to the voters, with one MEP, Chris
Heaton-Harris, saying the Prime Minister "would be sticking two fingers up to
all those people if he signs on the dotted line in Brussels this week".

Shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram MP said: "We don't know what the result
of the European elections are going to be, but what appears to be clear is that
there will be a strong vote against further integration in Europe and against
this wretched constitution.

"Tony Blair has failed to listen to the people of this country - to his cost in
the local elections. He had better listen to them now and go to Europe this week
to say 'no' to the constitution."

Leading British businesses are also preparing to launch a national campaign
against the EU constitution next weekend if Mr Blair signs up to the final
draft.

A source in the eurosceptic camp said: "There is a whole group of very, very
serious business people who will come out instantly and form a campaign to fight
against the constitution in a referendum. They are very well organised and
extremely well funded."

With only hours to go until the results of the European elections are known -
votes cannot be counted until after the polls have closed in every EU member
state tonight - sources claimed that the UK Independence Party were set to win a
shock 20 per cent of the vote across England and Wales.

UKIP, who are believed to have taken votes from all three major parties, could
be on target to win as many as 12 seats - up from three - while Labour is
expected to have been hit, losing eight seats. The Conservatives are predicted
to lose 13 MEPs and the Liberal Democrats, boosted by the anti-war vote, are set
to win three seats.

Sources in the East Midlands, where Sunday Express columnist Robert Kilroy-Silk
is standing, suggested that UKIP may have narrowly beaten Labour into third
place, around 22 per cent, behind the Conservatives, who are expected to get
above 35 per cent.

But it is not only Mr Blair who will be troubled by predictions of UKIP's
success. Tory leader Michael Howard could face a Right-wing backlash in his own
party from eurosceptics calling on him to harden up the Tory line on Europe.

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said: "We are extremely confident that, based on our local
election results, we will get at least 20 per cent of the vote nationally and it
could be better than that.

"A big UKIP vote will shift the political centre of gravity for all parties.

Michael Howard is going to be under enormous pressure from both wings of his
party on Monday. You simply cannot rule out the Conservative party splitting on
this.

"If we get the vote we expect, as we now represent a view held by over half of
Britain, we will be saying to Tony Blair that he must not go to Brussels and
sign the constitution this week. That is our challenge to him. Tony Blair has
got to listen to the voice of the people."

Leading europhile Tory peer Lord Heseltine said UKIP's success would put "very
powerful" pressure on Mr Howard's leadership of the Conservatives.

In an interview with GMTV's Sunday Programme, being broadcast today, he said:
"He's got a steamroller behind him, pushing him. It's extremely difficult for
Michael Howard." Downing Street denied that a decisive eurosceptic vote in the
European poll would hold Mr Blair "to ransom" as he prepared to sign the
constitution.

The Prime Minister's spokesman said: "The people have not voted against the
constitution because there isn't a constitution to vote against at the moment.
The Prime Minister will go to Brussels this week and he will negotiate for a
constitution that is in the best interests of Britain and we believe that we can
achieve that. Any constitution that is agreed will then be submitted to a
national referendum.

"The results of the European election are an interesting guide to public opinion
at the moment but they do not tie the hands of the Government.

Nobody is being held to ransom."

After the latest draft of the constitution was published on Friday, there was
little optimism this weekend that national leaders would indeed be able to agree
a final draft of the controversial constitutional treaty by the end of the
summit on Saturday.

Government sources predicted that EU leaders had only a "50-50" chance of
reaching agreement as they wrangle over the detail.

Mr Blair has repeatedly pledged that he will not give ground on Britain's key
"red lines" - refusing to give away powers over our foreign, defence and
immigration policies, as well as economic and tax-setting powers.

A Downing Street source said: "He wants a deal this weekend. He does not want to
wield the handbag, like Margaret Thatcher did, but he isn't going to give any
further ground.

"Everyone has invested so much time and energy in this already and it never gets
any easier. They've already failed once, last year, to get agreement and this is
probably about as good a chance as it gets. If it has to wait until the autumn,
then it gets closer to our general election and we don't want that."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              29 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 13, 2004

KILROY KILLS OFF PM'S EU DREAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 384 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk last night vowed to kill off the new EU constitution.

And he warned Tony Blair that signing up to a federal superstate this week would
"show contempt for the British people".

The warning came amid widespread expectations that the results of the European
elections - to be announced tonight - will deliver a nearfatal blow to Mr
Blair's European dream. A majority of voters are likely to have backed parties
opposed to the new constitution. Sources claimed that Mr Kilroy-Silk's UK
Independence Party is set to win a shock 20 per cent of the vote across England
and Wales, with the Tories polling above 35 per cent in the whole of Britain.

Mr Blair will face a stark warning from both UKIP and the Tories tomorrow that
he cannot put "two fingers up" at the British people and sign up to the
constitution if more than half the country has already voted against it.

The Prime Minister will travel to Brussels later this week for a crucial EU
summit to agree the final draft of the constitution despite the expected massive
backlash against handing over key powers to the eurocrats.

Last night Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram said: "Tony Blair has failed
to listen to the people of this country - to his cost in the local elections. He
had better listen to them now and go to Europe this week to say 'No' to the
constitution."

Mr Kilroy-Silk's high profile campaign for UKIP has been credited with boosting
the party's fortunes since the former Labour MP and TV presenter joined their
ranks. It is predicted that he will push Labour into third place in the East
Midlands region, where he is standing as a candidate for the European
parliament.

And at a meeting tomorrow, senior UKIP figures are planning to install Mr
Kilroy-Silk as leader of the party so he can lead their fight against Europe.

The Sunday Express has also learned that British business leaders are preparing
to launch a hard-hitting and well-funded "No" campaign if Mr Blair signs up to
the constitution.

In an exclusive interview with the Sunday Express, Mr Kilroy-Silk said yesterday
that he is already plotting with UKIP's allies in other EU countries to kill the
constitution stone dead.

Mr Kilroy-Silk has confirmed that he is also considering a return to
Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              30 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 13, 2004

KILROY-SILK LOOKS SET TO BECOME NEW UKIP LEADER AND TAKE ON EU 'POODLES'; 'BLAIR
MUST NOW STOP TREATING HIS PEOPLE W ITH CONTEMPT'

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6 7

LENGTH: 1218 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk last night vowed to lead a Europe-wide battle to prevent the
creation of a European superstate.

He branded Tony Blair and John Prescott as "poodles" of Brussels, and warned the
Prime Minister and his deputy that he will fight to defeat them in referendums
on the EU constitution and plans to create Euro-style federal regions in
England.

With the former TV presenter set to secure a seat in the European Parliament
this evening colleagues in the UK Independence Party will tomorrow attempt to
make him party leader.

In an exclusive interview with the Sunday Express, the former Labour MP said
UKIP's breakthrough in the European Parliament elections meant that "things are
never going to be the same again".

He went on: "The major parties will never be able to take people for granted or
tell people what to think or instruct people what to do ever again because the
people have spoken.

"There's no way that Tony Blair can go ahead with the constitution.

That would show contempt for the British people. I expect UKIP and myself to be
at the heart of the campaign that will defeat the Government in a referendum."

Senior party figures in UKIP have revealed they are stitching together a deal
for Kilroy-Silk to take over the reins of power.

Current leader Roger Knapman will be asked to stand aside for the good of the
party at a meeting tomorrow.

Mr Kilroy-Silk would not be drawn on whether he would relish the prospect of
being leader.

"There is no job vacancy, " he said. "Roger Knapman has not indicated that he
has any intention of stepping down. The first thing will be to decide a strategy
for the parliamentary party and who does what."

But one influential UKIP insider said: "People want Robert to be leader. That
will be discussed on Monday. He will be elected by acclamation if it happens.

"There are people who say we should wait three months but we've got to go
straight in on Monday and move on fast.

"Robert has only been in the party a few weeks but we must be ruthless. He has
generated the most publicity we have ever had.

"We've got this man, we've got this brand, let's go with it now. It's the
logical next step for the party.

This is the turning point. It's about winning."

Whether or not he becomes leader, Kilroy-Silk is already plotting his return to
mainstream Westminster politics, which he left in 1986.

He confirmed that he is considering standing for Parliament in one of the two
by-elections to be held over the summer. The Leicester South seat is in the East
Midlands Euro-constituency that he has just fought. And Birmingham Hodge Hill is
where Kilroy-Silk grew up, went to school and where many of his family still
live.

But he is also considering a high profile head-to-head battle with pro-European
Tory Kenneth Clarke in his Nottingham Rushcliffe constituency at next year's
general election next year.

He said: "I've just been sent a copy of this Eurofacts news sheet that says
Robert Kilroy-Silk should be standing against Ken Clarke.

"That's not from me or the party, that's outside the party. It says, 'Robert
Kilroy-Silk would surely make a splendid candidate in Rushcliffe'. Leicester
South is in my European constituency and the Birmingham seat is where all my
family live but I haven't made any decision yet."

Mr Kilroy-Silk's first priority if he becomes an MEP is to stop the new European
constitution. He has already held informal talks with allies in other EU nations
about how best to coordinate their efforts to get a "No" vote in referendums
around Europe.

He said: "We're not alone. There are large numbers of people who share the view
of the British people in Europe. There are millions in other countries who don't
want a federal state. This is the view of the majority of the British people. I
have already talked to people in Poland and Denmark about how we can best work
together.

"On Sunday night and the early hours of Monday we will be discussing where we go
from here and think about relations with similar parties to prosecute our cause
in the European Parliament."

Also in Kilroy-Silk's sights is John Prescott and his plans for regional
assemblies, which he says will "destroy England".

He sees this as an attempt to "Balkanise" Britain into federal regions that
would one day report directly to Brussels.

"I will want to kill off the proposal to destroy England by transforming it into
regions, " he said. "Apart from the possibility of a by-election in the meantime
that will be my first priority in Brussels.

"The East Midlands is a European region but Leicestershire doesn't feel any
affinity with Lincolnshire. The people of Derbyshire don't feel any close links
with Nottingham or Northampton but they are lumped together. It's ridiculous.
Yorkshire is a region, perhaps the North-east as well.

"The whole intention, with Prescott acting as Prodi's poodle, is to destroy the
content of the English nation, so we'll stop that."

Kilroy-Silk said UKIP was now a force to be reckoned with in British politics.
"This is just the beginning.

This is a breakthrough. We've established a beachhead now. There are big issues
like the signing of the constitution, the referendum on regional authorities and
the referendum on the constitution. We will be in there fighting. This is a
historic realignment of British politics. Blair will have to take note. You
cannot in a democratic country ignore the views of the people.

"What I have seen in the past three weeks is a deep and abiding resentment
against the old political parties.

You can't bottle up resentment for very long and if you don't attend to people's
real deep anxieties then that resentment will explode and the consequences will
be very serious."

He slammed all three main parties for their reluctance to enter into debate with
UKIP.

"Tony Blair hasn't made any contributions to the debate at all. Charles Kennedy
has been talking about Iraq and Michael Howard has been all over the place
following us, trying to keep up. We're the only ones that have been debating
Europe and moved the argument along. We have got the message across now that it
is possible to withdraw from Europe and remain as friends and trading partners."

Kilroy-Silk is not counting his chickens yet, despite widespread public
expectation that he is set to become Britain's best known member of the European
Parliament.

"I know from my previous experience in politics that what people say to you on
the streets does not always translate when they put their cross on the ballot
paper, " he said.

"The thing that could cause me problems is that there is postal voting, which
will help the big parties who can go and get out their vote.

"They control the councils and have years of canvas returns to know where their
supporters are. We didn't have the same number of troops on the ground."

But some experts are predicting that the former daytime TV star will garner a
vote well over 20 per cent and push Labour into third place, a result that would
fire another shot across the Prime Minister's increasingly swamped bows.

He added: "If my political antennae are still what they were, we should be
getting a very, very good result. Tony Blair will have to take note."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              31 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 13, 2004

LEADER; CONTINENTAL DIVIDE BETWEEN BLAIR AND THE ELECTORATE

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 648 words


TONY Blair has a cheek. The Prime Minister has been absent throughout the four
weeks of the campaign for the European parliament elections and yet when
challenged on BBC TV News over the rise in support for UKIP he says that "we
need a real debate about Europe".

Absolutely. So why didn't he engage in it? Why didn't he attempt to make the
case for Britain's continued membership of a remote and corrupt European state
dominated by France and Germany? Why didn't he attempt to justify to his
working-class supporters why we should continue to belong to an organisation
that costs us a net GBP 30billion a year - enough to provide for 10,000 hospital
beds, 68,000 police officers, 66,000 senior teachers, 125,000 trainee nurses and
increase pensions by GBP 34 a week every year?

These are the issues that are important. The whole country has been debating
them - thanks to UKIP's campaign. Yet the Prime Minister has not deigned to join
the conversation with his people. Why? Why has he been AWOL during the most
momentous debate about Europe for years? Why, indeed, is neither his name nor
photo on a single Labour party election leaflet?

Ashamed of him, are they? Become a liability has he?

Maybe both are true.

But if he does believe in the nonsense about Britain needing to be at "the heart
of Europe" he doesn't have his heart in telling us why. Leaders are supposed to
lead.

They are supposed to argue for the cause. They have a duty to engage in the
issues. Yet what Tony Blair has shown is a dereliction of duty on a grand scale.

He will, I'm sure, pay a price for so arrogantly refusing to join the hustings.
Like him we shall learn the results of the elections tonight. It may be the
polls were wrong and UKIP will not increase its vote. But if the polls and my
own political antennae are correct then Tony Blair will be confronted with a
major problem.

A big vote for UKIP will show that despite having seven years in power he has
failed to convince the people of the value of the EU. This is a terrible
indictment of his leadership. If he can't convince the voters in seven long
years when will he convert them?

He clearly will not be able to sign up for the new EU Constitution next week,
not, that is, unless he intends to treat public opinion with contempt. Total
failure stares him in his face. The Tories will be in an even greater mess.
Their splits will widen. More will desert to UKIP, where they will find a home
in tune with the majority of Tory voters and of the electorate. Michael Howard
must stop pandering to the old men like Heseltine and Clarke and realign his
party on a policy of a managed withdrawal from the EU while continuing to trade
and have good relations with our European neighbours.

Moreover, if more than 50 per cent of the electorate vote against the two main
old parties - as they are likely to over Europe, over the war, and more besides,
then we shall see a major change of British politics. They will have found a
party that listens to and speaks for them.

THE metropolitan politically-correct elite have been beating a path to my door
all week pleading - yes, I mean pleading, as The Guardian man did, almost on his
knees - for interviews.

One of them, The Observer's Lynn Barber, supposedly the doyenne of interviewers,
arrived flustered and dolled-up in her Sunday best. She plonked her tape
recorder between us, read out all her questions without looking me in the eye
once while confessing that her mother was a racist!

If she's the doyenne, God help the rest. All of them arrived with prejudices in
which to fit the facts, while omitting those that would spoil a "good story".

Everyone affected to be an intellectual, a very superior person but proved to be
incapable of engaging in serious political discussion and preferred instead to
deal in tittle-tattle like up-market 3am Girls.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              32 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 13, 2004

VERY STRANGE CASE OF THE MISSING PRIME MINISTER

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 614 words


TONY BLAIR has a cheek. The Prime Minister has been absent throughout the four
weeks of the campaign for the elections to the European parliament and yet, when
challenged by Andrew Marr on BBC TV News about the rise in support for Ukip, he
calmly announces that "we need a real debate about Europe".

Absolutely. So why didn't he engage in it? Why didn't he attempt to make the
case for Britain's continued membership of a remote and corrupt European federal
state dominated by France and Germany? Why didn't he attempt to justify to his
working-class supporters why we should continue to belong to an organisation
that costs us a net GBP 30 billion a year - enough to provide for 10,000
hospital beds, 68,000 police officers, 66,000 senior teachers, 125,000 trainee
nurses and increase pensions by GBP 34 a week every year? These are the issues
that are important. They are the ones that the British people have been talking
about.

The whole country has been debating them - thanks to Ukip's campaign. Yet the
Prime Minister has not deigned to join the conversation with his people.

Why? Why has he been AWOL throughout the most momentous debate about Europe for
years? Why, indeed, is neither his name nor photograph on a single Labour Party
election leaflet?

Ashamed of him, are they? Become a liability, has he?

Maybe both are true. But if he really does believe in all that nonsense about
Britain needing to be at "the heart of Europe" he doesn't seem to have his heart
in telling us why. Leaders are supposed to lead. They are supposed to argue for
the cause, put the case. They have a duty to engage in the issues. Yet what Tony
Blair has demonstrated is a dereliction of duty on a grand scale.

He will, I'm sure, pay a high political price for so arrogantly and disdainfully
refusing to join the hustings. Like him we shall learn the results of the
elections for the European parliament tonight. It may be that the polls were
wrong and Ukip will not increase its vote. But if the polls and my own political
antennae are correct, then Tony Blair will be confronted with a major political
problem tomorrow morning.

ABIG VOTE for Ukip will show that, despite having seven years in power, he has
failed to convince the people of the value of belonging to the EU.

This is a terrible indictment of his leadership. If he can't convince the voters
in seven long years, when will he convert them?

He clearly will not be able to sign up for the new EU Constitution next week,
not, that is, unless he intends to treat public opinion with contempt. And he
will have a hard task trying to turn that opinion round in time for the
referendum. Total failure stares him in his wide-eyed face. The Tories will be
in an even greater mess. Their splits will widen. More will desert to Ukip,
where they will find a congenial home in tune with the majority of Tory voters
and of the electorate. Michael Howard must stop pandering to the old men like
Heseltine and Clarke and realign his party on a policy of a managed and
civilised withdrawal from the EU while continuing to trade and have good
relations with our European neighbours.

Only that will save him and his party.

Moreover, if more than 50 per cent of the electorate vote against the two main
old parties - as they are likely to - because they are fed up with being lied to
and deceived - over Europe, over the war, and more besides, and patronised and
not listened to, then we shall see a major change of British politics. They will
have found a party that listens to and speaks for them. The future will be
exciting.

Not a bad result, is it, for a party of cranks, gadflies and extremists?

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              33 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 13, 2004

ROBERT KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 100 words


THE DAILY Mirror was once a great campaigning newspaper with a coverage of
politics of which all who worked on it could be proud. Not any more. Now it has
minute p olitical coverage, which is mostly motivated by bile rather than a
desire to analyse and explain.

An example of this was displayed last week by someone called Paul Routledge -
who p arades himself as a political pundit. Trying to understand Ukip's
popularity he said the p arty is "a goggle-eyed bunch of loonies".

Look at the picture of him with his vanity moustache: who looks like the
goggle-eyed loony, him or me?

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              34 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 13, 2004

REVIEW -; THINGS YOU DIDN'T KNOW YOU DIDN'T KNOW!

BYLINE: MITCHELL SYMONS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 1014 words


DO you know, for example, what octupuses do when they're stressed? Or who taught
Hollywood star Ben Stiller to swim? Or how many times Cher's parents married
each other? These and many other non-essential nuggets are brought to you in our
weekly trivia column by MITCHELL SYMONS, the master of oddball information It's
Diabetes Week this week.

Here are some celebrities who have diabetes. . .

Sir Steven Redgrave (right) Halle Berry Wasim Akram Mick Fleetwood John Peel Syd
Barrett BB King George Lucas Meat Loaf Jack Wild Gary Mabbutt Bill Maynard
Sharon Stone (right) Bernard Manning Michael Barry Mary Tyler Moore Sybil Ruscoe
Architecture Week starts on Friday. Here are some people who trained to be
architects. . .

Art Garfunkel (below) Rifat Ozbek Janet Street-Porter Queen Noor of Jordan
Justine Frischmann Carla Bruni (right) Alan Plater Lord Snowdon Justin De Blank
Chris Lowe Roger Waters Fed up with telesales canvassers? Here's how to deal
with them. . .

If they ask you how you are, tell them! Tell them about every single one of your
ailments.

Then add a few you just made up on the spot.

If they say they're not selling anything, tell them that's a pity because you're
in the mood for buying.

If they give you their name - "Hi, I'm Sharon" - say, "Oh, Sharon, how ARE you?"
as though they're a long-lost friend.

Ask them to spell their name.

Then ask them to spell the name of their company.

Then ask them where the company is located.

Then ask them to spell the company's location.

Ask them if they're real or just one of the voices in your head.

If they're phoning from a kitchen company, tell them you live in a squat.

Tell them to talk very VERY S-L-O-W-L-Y, because you want to write down every
single word.

Tell the telesales person that you're busy at the moment and ask them for their
home phone number so you can phone back. When they say that they can't give out
their home number, you say: "I suppose you don't want anyone bothering you at
home?" If they agree, say:

"Well, that's how I feel!"

As we all look forward to summer, here are some wise words on the subject. . .

A perfect summer day is when the sun is shining, the breeze is blowing, the
birds are singing, . . . and the lawn mower is broken.

James Dent Ah, summer, what power you have to make us suffer and like it.

Russell Baker And summer's lease hath all too short a date.

William Shakespeare Summer is the time when one sheds one's tensions with one's
clothes and the right kind of day is jewelled balm for the battered spirit. A
few of those days and you can become drunk with the belief that all's right with
the world.

Ada Louise Huxtable The coldest winter I ever spent was summer in San Francisco.

Mark Twain The summer night is like a perfection of thought.

Wallace Stevens Summer afternoon. . . summer afternoon. . . the two most
beautiful words in the English language.

Henry James In summer, the song sings itself.

William Carlos Williams Of all the wonders of nature, a tree in summer is
perhaps the most remarkable; with the possible exception of a moose singing
Embraceable You in spats.

Woody Allen (left) Long stormy spring-time, wet contentious April, winter
chilling the lap of very May;

but at length the season of summer does come.

Thomas Carlyle Today, the British Lung Foundation is organising a march to No 10
Downing Street. The following notables had lungs removed Malcolm Allison Vaclav
Havel Doug Mountjoy Stewart Granger King George VI (right) Robert Maxwell
Viscount Bernard Montgomery Some things we'd never do sober. . .

Eat curry at midnight.

Let your boss know precisely what you've always thought of them.

Go bungee-jumping.

Walk in the middle of the road.

Tell perfect strangers that you love them ("I really do. . .").

Heckle at a karaoke evening.

Sing at a karaoke evening.

Streak.

Go to bed on holiday.

Take part in a pram race.

Get drunk.

This week's ponderables. . .

Ben Stiller was taught how to swim by The Pips (as in Gladys Knight And The
Pips).

Non-smokers dream more than smokers.

When Abba (below) played the Royal Albert Hall in February 1977, they were the
first Swedish artistes to perform there for more than 100 years.

Aspirin was the first drug offered as a water-soluble tablet in 1900.

The bark of the redwood tree is fireproof. Fires in redwood forests take place
inside the trees.

A pig's snout is called a gruntle.

Cher's parents married, divorced and remarried three times.

A typical bed houses more than six billion dust mites.

The average age of a Brit is 38.

Croatia was the first country to recognise the United States in 1776.

If you mouth the word "colourful" to someone, it looks like you are saying, "I
love you".

The characters of Homer, Marge, Lisa and Maggie Simpson were given the same
first names as Simpsons creator Matt Groening's father, mother and two sisters.

An elephant has about 100 gallons of blood.

The average person has 100,000 hairs on their head.

The reindeer is the only female animal with antlers.

The largest toy distributor in the world is McDonald's.

A mouse has more bones than a human (225 to 206).

Ninety degrees below zero (Fahrenheit), your breath will freeze in mid-air and
fall to the ground.

Octopuses have been known to eat their tentacles when they are exposed to
stressful situations.

Oprah Winfrey once approached Aretha Franklin as she got out of a limo and
convinced the singer she was abandoned. Aretha gave her $ 100, which she used to
stay in a hotel.

We've had enough of. . .

Virtual racing in betting shops.

Graffiti - even if it looks like art.

Art - when it looks like graffiti.

People who still use Fast Show catchphrases.

Having arms too short to scratch the middle of our backs.

Camilla Parker Bowles.

The noise of that machine that cleans your teeth at the dentist.

People whose cars are festooned with Eng-er-land flags.

Politicians who slag off Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              35 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 13, 2004

BRIEFLY. . .

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 301 words


I AGREE entirely with Margaret Holder's opinion about the absence of Prince
William from the Normandy tribute ("Why Wills should have been at the Normandy
tribute", Sunday Express, June 6).

I wonder if anyone else noticed his immaculately clean hands and manicured
fingernails while allegedly handling sheep?

Gertrude Moffat, Wallasey, Merseyside IF the United Kingdom Independence Party
really wants to be taken seriously and not to be looked on for what I suspect it
is - a here today, gone tomorrow protest wagon - it had better start saying what
it is in favour of and not just what it is against.

Jack Stone, Clacton-on-Sea, Essex

AT the last Roman Catholic service I attended, the priest was strongly
condemning the lack of funding for Aids sufferers.

Instantly the words pot, kettle and black sprang to my mind. I wonder how many
innocent people have contracted Aids due to his church's opposition to safe sex?

Aled Jones, Bridlington, East Yorkshire

WITH reference to Catherine Barnes's article on the ill effects of high-heeled
shoes on children's feet, your readers should also be aware that high heels
damage not only feet, but muscular balance in the leg if worn regularly.

In particular, they can shorten the posterior calf muscles, alter the pelvic
tilt and increase spinal curvature. Is this not yet another example of the young
taking the lead from what they see celebrities doing?

Henry F Beamont, Institute of Chiropodists and Podiatrists

YET again summer will be spoiled as people stay indoors on sunny evenings and
papers fill up with the pointless antics of a bunch of nobodies. Yes, it's Big
Brother season again. Only two weeks in and already all sorts of filth has been
broadcast in the name of entertainment.

P Grossman, Milton Keynes

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              36 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

Loaded ballot

SECTION: Features; Leading Article:Pg. 22

LENGTH: 793 words

However much political damage the UK Independence Party turns out to have done
to the Conservatives in the European elections - and perhaps to other parties -
there is a much more significant obstacle facing the Tories in the months before
the general election. Indeed, this barrier to the eventual achievement of office
by the Conservatives is such an ingrained feature of the political landscape
that it is almost never commented upon.

Last Friday, Michael Howard was justifiably jubilant at the performance of his
rejuvenated party in the local elections - a performance which showed, among
other things, that the Tories are at last making an impact in urban areas. The
Conservatives' capture of Trafford and Swindon was a very important step towards
the eventual shedding of their image as a party of the shires alone.

None the less, a structural injustice in the system used to elect MPs to
Westminster means that the battle is not a fair contest of ideas, organisation
and campaigning. The Tories gained 38 per cent of the vote last week, compared
to the Lib Dems' 29 per cent and Labour's 26 per cent. Mr Howard remarked that
this 12-point lead over Tony Blair's party was good news since "we have to be
11.5 points ahead to win the general election." But this, when one thinks about
it, is an extraordinary state of affairs.

Readers who want to know what last week's vote, or indeed any opinion poll,
would mean if translated into a general election result should consult the
useful website www.financialcalculus.co.uk/election. This suggests (with
appropriate health warnings) that, if Labour's performance on Thursday were
replicated in a general election, the party would gain 37 per cent of the seats
at Westminster - despite polling only 26 per cent of the votes.

Though he once claimed that New Labour had become "the political arm of none
other than the British people as a whole", Tony Blair has been quite happy to be
the beneficiary of this disreputable psephological anomaly. In the 2001
election, Labour won a 167 seat majority with only 41 per cent of the vote,
while the Conservatives won 32 per cent of the vote, but only one quarter of the
seats. On average, 51,000 votes were required to elect every Tory MP, compared
to 26,000 for every Labour member.

There are two main reasons for this. The first is the recent prevalence of
anti-Conservative tactical voting, in which, by a so-called "pincer movement",
Labour and the Lib Dems concentrate their respective efforts on constituencies
where they know they can defeat the Tories. There were subtle indications in
last week's elections that this tacit arrangement may be shakier than it used to
be. The Lib Dems, for instance, focused their fire to impressive effect on
Newcastle, leaving the Tories a freer hand in the South.

The second problem for the Conservatives is more deeply embedded, however.
Traditionally Labour constituencies tend to be smaller geographically and
represent fewer voters - a trend which has been continued by migration out of
the inner cities. Abstention by Labour supporters tends to be higher than
average in such seats, meaning that there are relatively few "surplus" Labour
votes. The Representation of the People Act also requires that constituencies in
(overwhelmingly Labour) Scotland and Wales should be smaller. The planned cut in
the number of Scottish MPs will correct this unfairness to a limited extent. But
the fundamental inequity remains.

Although this newspaper has generally smiled upon Mr Howard's leadership, this
complaint is not special pleading. It is not healthy for a democratic system
when the gap between the popular vote and the balance of parliamentary
representation is so great, and so apparently biased in favour of one party
against another. The Lib Dems have long complained of this injustice. In their
case, however, the argument is less impressive, since the vast majority of
people who vote for their party - including, amazingly, some Eurosceptics - do
so as an act of protest rather than with any expectation that Charles Kennedy
will be heading for Number 10.

The Tories, however, for all that has befallen them in the past 15 years, remain
a party of government, voted for by those who want a real alternative to Labour.
To complain about the rules in any contest always courts the danger of seeming
churlish. None the less, there is sometimes a greater danger of bringing the
contest into disrepute when the rules seem absurdly skewed in favour of one
party. The structure of Westminster constituencies in this country is nothing
short of a scandal, and one that - if it is left untouched - will ultimately
make a mockery of Parliament's claim to authority. But perhaps that is what Mr
Blair wants.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              37 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

Now I can get back to the business of ignoring you Daniel Hannan MEP, says that
tonight's EU results will change nothing

BYLINE: BY Daniel Hannan

SECTION: Features; Comment:Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1053 words

First the good news. By nine o'clock tonight, 25 countries will have
participated in open and orderly elections. No one will be sent into exile as a
result of these polls, or placed under house arrest. Defeated MEPs will depart
peacefully, clutching their enormous redundancy packages. Yet 30 years ago, 11
of these states were dictatorships; 60 years ago, 21 of them lived under
tyranny. Even we cantankerous sceptics should allow ourselves a satisfied snort
at all this.

Now the bad news. The results will be ignored. On Friday, EU leaders will meet
to adopt a European constitution little different from that proposed by Valery
Giscard d'Estaing 12 months ago. It is possible, of course, that there will be
another last-minute hitch. Poland is still not happy about the new voting
system. Tony Blair may scupper the whole thing as a way of getting himself out
of having to hold a referendum. But, even if there is another delay, the
constitution will be back; Euro-treaties always are.

Europe's leaders have invested too much in the project to be put off, whatever
the outcome of today's elections. We do not yet have the results, of course; but
I am prepared to hazard a couple of guesses. First, this will be the first
European Parliament with a significant anti-federalist bloc. I have just gone
over the figures with Jens-Peter Bonde, the veteran Danish Euro-MP who, with me,
chairs SOS Democracy, the tiny Euro-sceptic group in Brussels. We hope to have
more than 100 members in the new session, with many recruits from both Poland
and the Czech Republic. The Netherlands, the only state so far to have declared,
has just elected Paul van Buitenen, the whistle-blower who brought down the
Santer Commission.

Second, turnout will fall yet again. It has risen in this country, partly
because of the delayed local polls and partly because of Labour's postal ballot
scheme, which invites multiple voting. But it will be down elsewhere in the EU.
Participation has fallen at each successive election since 1979 - a neat
refutation of the argument that giving the European Parliament more power will
make voters respect it. In fact, the more we MEPs do, the less people like us.

And whatever happens on the Continent, I am prepared to offer a pound to a euro
that, in this country, the combined votes of the anti-constitution parties -
Conservative, Green and UKIP - will tower over the puny Lib-Lab total. With five
days to go, Mr Blair is being given the strongest possible mandate to veto the
constitution.

Admittedly, we have been promised a referendum; but, as Hitler grasped, a
plebiscite can be used as a way to avoid further elections. When it comes to
European referendums, "No" votes are discarded, but "Yes" votes are treated as
final and binding. Indeed, Giscard and his friends have specifically anticipated
the possibility of a "No" vote by providing that, once four fifths of the member
states have ratified it, the constitution will become active, and a two-year
period will be set aside to allow the recalcitrants to fall into line.

In any case, the European elections suggest a wider resentment against the
assumptions on which the constitution rests. I say this with some feeling,
having spent the past month criss-crossing the Home Counties, plaguing my
employers by asking them to re-elect me. While people were generally polite, it
was clear that they did not know who I was and did not want to know. This may
have been personal, of course; but I like to think that it simply reflects the
fact that very few people think of themselves as Europeans in the sense that
someone might be Russian or Swiss. European democracy fails because there is no
demos - no community with which we identify when we use the word "We" - only the
kratos of a system that must compel obedience through force of law, not loyalty.

Lack of accountability is inherent in the EU. You will sometimes hear it said
that the Commission, the EU's governing body, is undemocratic. In fact, uniquely
in the Western world, it contrives to be anti-democratic, in the sense that you
generally have to lose an election to be sent there: witness Neil Kinnock or
Chris Patten.

I used to think that this was accidental. But, after five years in Brussels, I
am convinced that it was all part of Jean Monnet's design. He understood that
his scheme to amalgamate Europe's nations would never succeed if it had to be
periodically referred to the voters. So he devised a system where supreme power
would rest with a group of civil servants who were invulnerable to public
opinion. True, MEPs are elected. But they tend to be self-selecting Euro-philes
who recoil in horror at "populism" - which, when you think about it, is another
word for democracy.

I came across an interesting example of such thinking just after the polls
closed on Thursday, when I debated at the Oxford Union against Tristan
Garel-Jones. I confess to a sneaking regard for the former Europe minister - a
feeling which, as far as I can tell, is wholly unreciprocated. His Euro-philia
seems to be rooted in a genuine affection for Europe's cultures rather than, as
is often the case, a distaste for British patriotism. He made a clever speech,
the burden of which was that the nation-state was a 19th-century construct, with
no particular claim to permanence. When I put it to him that this was because
democracy had developed in the 19th century, and that, once people had the vote,
they generally cast it in favour of national self-determination, he agreed. The
point about the EU, he said, is that it goes beyond all that: it is post-modern.

Perhaps so. But if the EU were a state applying to join itself, it would fail to
meet the minimum democratic criteria. When, as in Ireland or Denmark, it
dislikes a referendum result, it strikes it down. When, as in Austria, it
resents the outcome of a general election, it challenges it. When Euro-sceptics
are elected in large numbers to its Parliament, the EU pursues legislation that
would have the effect of disqualifying them.

However you voted on Thursday, however our fellow Europeans vote today, the EU
will continue along the path to political integration. Mere elections will not
be allowed to check the reigning ideology. For some of the accession countries,
it must all seem horribly familiar.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              38 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

'Iraq' is now shorthand for all that voters dislike about Blair

SECTION: Features; Comment:Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1275 words

How resonant Tony Blair must have found Margaret Thatcher's tribute to Ronald
Reagan as he sat in the National Cathedral in Washington, and how telling that
he later made a point of hailing its poignancy. Quoting Arnold Bennett, Lady
Thatcher said in her address that the late President understood "the great cause
of cheering us all up". Well, Mr Blair must have thought, that used to be my
cause, too: persuading the voters that things could only get better. They used
to believe me. When did dusk fall on my dreams?

While the Prime Minister did his solemn duty as statesman-in-mourning, on the
other side of the Atlantic his party was gibbering with shock and growling with
recrimination as it absorbed the local election results. Yes, the Conservatives
did not make an unambiguous electoral breakthrough on Thursday, and must wait
for tonight's European election results to see whether the UK Independence Party
has taken the sheen off their achievement.

Yes, Michael Howard could claim no greater a percentage of the vote than William
Hague in 2000 (38 per cent). I vividly recall the glowing Mr Hague telling me
the morning after his local election triumph four years ago that he was "more
confident than ever before" that he would be Prime Minister. Thirteen months
after that interview, his dream lay in ashes. And yes, Labour supporters tend
disproportionately to stay at home in local contests but rouse themselves to
make the trip to the polling booth in general elections. One should draw broad
conclusions from such results with the greatest of caution.

Still, none of the above is doing much to calm Labour nerves. It is a truly
ignominious achievement to be the first governing party since records began to
come third in local elections. Losing a hefty number of council seats at this
stage of the Parliament is one thing - inevitable, perhaps - but losing such
strongholds as Newcastle after 30 years of Labour control, Bassetlaw in
Nottinghamshire, after 35, and Leeds after 24, is quite another. Such acts of
municipal rebellion cross the line which separates mere grumbling from outright
disaffection. David Blunkett's colleagues were furious with him for admitting on
Friday's Today programme that he was "mortified" by the results, but the Home
Secretary was simply being characteristically candid about a hammering whose
ferocity only became clear as the day progressed.

Mr Blunkett went on to unveil a theory which became common coin in Labour
briefing in the hours that followed. Iraq, he conceded, had indeed (to borrow
the metaphor used earlier by the Prime Minister) cast "a shadow" over the
elections. The festering divisions within the governing party and the country
over the conflict had translated into a recoil from Labour. But this, Mr
Blunkett continued, was only because the progress over Iraq of recent days -
notably the creation of an interim Iraqi government and the UN resolution on the
country's future administration - had failed to seep into the consciousness of
the British electorate in time for polling day. All would be well, the theory
continued, once, so to speak, the seeping was complete.

I like the idea that, in weeks to come, rather than discussing Euro 2004, the
regulars propping up the bar in The Focus Group and Firkin will shake their
heads over their pints as the good news from Iraq finally sinks in, wishing
ruefully that they had voted Labour after all. Pete: "I tell you, Dud, if only
I'd known about that fing UN resolution before I went down the polling station!
It was only unanimous, you know. Bloody marvellous. There was us thinking Blair
was a lying toff, and he only turns out to be a diamond geezer." Dud: "Yeah,
you're not wrong, Pete. Resolution 1546. Marvellous. And that Iyad Allawi . . .
Now there's an interim Iraqi Prime Minister. Marvellous. If only I'd known!"

As engaging as this theory is, it has two glaring flaws. The most obvious is
that there is no inherent reason why the "shadow" of Iraq should recede. For
almost a year, ministers have been predicting that the scars left by the
conflict on the British polity would heal and that the "bread and butter issues"
of health, education and transport would resume their rightful place on the
front page. Yet the scars have remained livid, first as a result of Dr David
Kelly's death and the ensuing Hutton Inquiry, then the failure to find weapons
of mass destruction in the sands of Iraq and, most recently, the Abu Ghraib
scandal. What was meant to be a short and decisive act of liberation, with a
swiftly happy ending, has become a confusingly protracted saga, a thicket of
moral dilemmas on which Bush and Blair have been snagged.

Perhaps the new UN resolution and the transfer of sovereignty in Iraq in 17
days' time will indeed drive the war and its aftermath from the foreground of
British politics, as Labour strategists so desperately hope. And then again,
perhaps not. The Butler Inquiry into the intelligence which led Britain to war
is due to report before the summer recess. The US commission on weapons of mass
destruction must deliver its findings by March 31 next year. There is a battery
of inquiries into prison abuse in Iraq which have yet to report. To assume that
the war is bound to fade from public consciousness is as irrational as it is
politically foolish.

Ministers are wrong, secondly, to suggest that public perception of the conflict
will be dictated by the course of events in Iraq itself. The war is no longer,
in the eyes of the voters, a quarrel in a far away country of which we know
little, but something more deeply symbolic. In truth, the contrast Labour draws
between the war and domestic issues is a false dichotomy: "Iraq" is no longer so
much a word that refers to a war, as a political shorthand, a catch-all category
like "spin" or "sleaze". It has become, in practice, a dark metaphor for all
that the voters dislike about Mr Blair's conduct at home, an exotic symptom of a
malignant disease.

When they see him now, they see a leader who promised a "New Britain" in 1997
but has grown fatally distracted by foreign adventures, a leader who was absent
on polling day, strolling in an open-necked shirt at the G8 meeting in Sea
Island, Georgia. From the row over the Iraq dossier and the failure to find WMD,
many of them have concluded that Iain Duncan Smith might have been right about
one thing: you can't believe a word Blair says. When they witness the
stubbornness and the depth of the Prime Minister's loyalty to President Bush,
Labour voters in particular wonder about his judgment, his principles and, in
some cases, his sanity. If, like me, you supported and continue to support the
war, then much of this will strike you as unfair. I remain in the tiny minority
who think the Iraqi conflict is a bad reason to condemn Mr Blair. But that is
scarcely the point.

In the Blair camp, there is still a measure of confidence about the general
election, and a more resilient faith that the Prime Minister is not likely to
quit in the foreseeable future in a fit of fury or fatigue. Press his intimates,
and they will gingerly predict a victory of between 70 and 100 seats, and
discuss the dauntingly wide prairie of a third term stretching ahead of them.
They may well be right. But the variables this time round are horribly
arbitrary, and have no recent precedent. The local elections showed definitively
that the shadow of Iraq, and all that it stands for, has reached the doorsteps
of this country. What nobody can say with the slightest confidence is how long
and with what political consequences the chilly presence of that shadow will be
felt.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              39 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

This is why we voted UKIP, Mr Howard

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor:Pg. 24

LENGTH: 230 words

Matthew d'Ancona is right. The rise of the UKIP is about asylum and immigration
(Comment, June 6). It was suggested in The Daily Telegraph last week that
support for the UKIP had surged because Michael Howard had precipitated a mutiny
by the Tory grassroots by opting for an alliance with the European Parliament's
most federalist bloc, the European People's Party (EPP). This is codswallop. The
UKIP was running ahead of the Liberal Democrats among likely voters before any
national newspaper mentioned the Tory links with the EPP.

An opinion poll last month said mass immigration is the principal concern of
voters, while other polls show that only 2 per cent of the voters regard Europe
as their primary concern. There is reason to believe that the BNP was the
retro-rocket that powered the rise of the UKIP in middle-class areas. I have
been told by several Conservative and former Conservative voters that, of all
the pamphlets they received for the European elections, the one that fired them
up most came from the BNP. It hammered Michael Howard on both asylum seekers and
immigration.

Middle-class electors find it almost impossible to vote for the racist BNP but
they can vote for the UKIP with a clear conscience. The real message of the
European elections is that English nationalists no longer look to the
Conservative Party.

G Dawson

Thingwall, Wirral

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              40 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

This is why we voted UKIP, Mr Howard

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor:Pg. 24

LENGTH: 114 words

Matthew d'Ancona should get out more. The arrogance and ignorance of the
self-important types he rubs shoulders with seems to have rubbed off, or he
would not dismiss voting for the UKIP as folly. Life-long Tories such as myself
understand how clever Michael Howard is at "triangulating" himself on the
European question. We also understand that a big UKIP vote will force him to
triangulate himself much closer to the 42 per cent of the electorate who know
that Britain doesn't need EU membership any more than Norway or Switzerland do.

As it is, he has aligned our party to the federalist EPP group in Brussels, and
we don't like it one bit.

Tom Burkard

Easton, Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              41 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

This is why we voted UKIP, Mr Howard

SECTION: Features; Comment:Pg. 24

LENGTH: 217 words

The Referendum candidate whom I beat in Romsey in 1997 states that I have
rejoined the Conservative Party (Letters, June 6). I am not and never have been
a member. My basic principles are liberal ones - hence my deep resentment of the
UKIP's new official xenophobia over East Europeans and of the "symbiotic
relationship" between elements of the BNP and UKIP which I referred to in my
article (Comment, May 30).

Despite what another of your correspondents, John Harvey, wrote, I am the real
founder of UKIP. I alone founded the Anti-Federalist League in 1991 which fought
the 1992 general election and I stood for it in 1993 in by-elections in Newbury
and Christchurch. After that I decided that a name-change was necessary, since
not many people understood that the name was based on the 19th-century Anti-Corn
Law League that converted the Tory Party to free trade in grain and low food
prices.

In September 1993 I and leading members of the AFL agreed on the name "UK
Independence Party". Technically, therefore, these other AFL members were
co-founders of UKIP.

Sadly, its founding principles - no taking up of seats in the European
Parliament; no toying with racism or xenophobia; first priority to be given to
domestic policies - were abandoned after I left.
(Dr) Alan Sked

London N1

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              42 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

Blair's crisis deepens as UKIP raids Labour's vote PM's pollsters warn that
European results will be 'worse than last week'

BYLINE: BY PATRICK HENNESSY AND MELISSA KITE

SECTION: News; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 833 words

TONY BLAIR was last night braced for an even worse "kicking" than his party
suffered in last week's local elections, as ministers predicted that Eurosceptic
voters had abandoned Labour to support the UK Independence Party in the European
poll.

Labour pollsters said that the results of the European parliamentary election,
to be announced tonight, would give the party an even smaller share of the
national vote than it achieved in Thursday's council polls when it came third,
on 26 per cent, behind the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats.

Labour's confidential internal polls are forecasting that it will achieve
between 22 and 26 per cent of the vote. One minister said: "John Prescott called
what happened on Thursday night a kicking. This could be an even worse one."

A senior Labour figure admitted that the UKIP, which advocates withdrawal from
the European Union, had taken votes from Labour as well as from the Tories. "I
think UKIP will do rather well, particularly in the South of England," said the
official. "Nobody's going to get a high vote."

Last night Peter Hain, the Leader of the Commons, said there was a chance that
Labour could lose the next general election.

He said: "If this behaviour is reflected at the general election then it isn't
teaching us a lesson or giving a message. What it's doing is bringing Michael
Howard [the Tory leader] in by the back door."

Liam Fox, the Conservative Party co-chairman, claimed that Labour made a
strategic mistake in tacitly encouraging voters to back the UKIP - hoping that
this would damage the Tories. "It is clear from the London election results that
Labour did not sufficiently understand that many of their voters were also
Eurosceptics."

He said the UKIP's performance in London, where its candidate for mayor, the
boxing promoter Frank Maloney, won six per cent of the total vote and the party
achieved two assembly seats, was a likely pointer to further successes tonight.

As the Prime Minister came under further attack from his party, with some Labour
rebels raising fresh doubts about his leadership, there was, however, little
comfort for Mr Howard. Conservative strategists predicted a Tory showing in
Europe "quite significantly down" on the party's result in 1999, when it
attracted 36 per cent of the vote and had a comfortable lead over Labour.

"Obviously we recognise that UKIP are going to do well," said one senior Tory
aide.

Both main parties predicted that the Tories would beat Labour - but by quite a
narrow margin and with neither party likely to manage 30 per cent of the total
vote.

Anything less than 29 per cent would be the worst Conservative performance in a
national election in the party's history. That would be a major embarrassment
for Mr Howard, while a result below 25 per cent for Labour would see it drop to
levels of support not seen since the First World War.

Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrat chief strategist, said that his party would
be happy with "any advance" on the modest showing of 12.7 per cent it achieved
in 1999.

By contrast, Roger Knapman, the UKIP leader, said that he would be disappointed
if his party did not win at least 10 seats, and held out the possibility that it
could win more than 20.

At present it has three. Other UKIP figures claimed that they expected to gain
at least 20 per cent of the vote and held out the hope of becoming the larg est
British party in the European parliament. Mr Knapman said that the UKIP strategy
was to use its seats to make as much trouble as possible for the EU. "We want to
bring home to the British people just how ghastly and corrupt the present
organisations are and how much money it is costing us - money that could be
spent on British pensioners, schools and hospitals."

The UKIP is confident that, whatever the results, it will win enough seats to
embarrass Mr Blair before this week's summit in Brussels where he hopes to sign
a deal on the proposed EU constitution.

In a further display of its growing confidence, the UKIP disclosed that it was
planning to fight Labour in the Leicester South by-election - one of three this
summer - and would field candidates in all 651 seats at the general election.
There would be a high-profile candidate in Mr Howard's Folkestone constituency.

The most likely candidate to contest Leicester is Robert Kilroy Silk. The former
Labour MP, who hopes to win election to the European parliament today from the
east Midlands region, told The Sunday Telegraph: "I think it is very likely we
would be standing at one of the by-elections."

Mr Blair, who will respond tomorrow with a rallying call to Labour MPs at
Westminster, wins backing today from Gordon Brown, the Chancellor.

Asked in a recorded interview on GMTV's Sunday programme if Mr Blair has become
an electoral liability for Labour, Mr Brown replies: "I don't accept that at
all. We make these decisions as a team. This is a Government that works as a
team and we take responsibility as a team."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              43 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

TORIES WARNED Break silence or be broken, Mr Howard

BYLINE: BY Christopher Booker

SECTION: News; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 435 words

The indications are that tonight we will be looking at one of the most
remarkable political events of our lifetime: that the British people will have
risen up in extraordinary numbers to say "no to the European Union" by voting
for the UK Independence Party, putting it ahead of one or more established
parties all over the country.

One of the greatest mistakes made by the political establishment in assessing
this phenomenon is to imagine that this revulsion against the EU is due to
"xenophobia". What the British people have instinctively most come to resent -
as I know from thousands of letters I have received in recent years from readers
who will have supported UKIP last Thursday - is the realisation that we are
being taken over by a wholly new form of government.

They view this system as alien, not because it is "run by foreigners" - they are
well aware that our own political class plays just as active a part in it as
those of other countries - but because it is undemocratic, oppressive and
because it does not work.

The Tory Party in particular will be put on the spot by the "UKIP rebellion".
For years it has tried to anaesthetise its supporters by limiting its references
to "Europe" to a few empty "Eurosceptic" slogans, and otherwise seeking to
suppress any proper discussion of just how far this new system of government
dictates how our country is run. This has meant that in practice the Tory Party
has abdicated its role as a proper opposition.

As a result of handing over the control of our policymaking to the EU, we are
currently faced with all sorts of problems. The huge crises that are looming in
the management of our energy and of our waste are just two example. of these.
But because these are "European competences", the Tories seem terrified of
making any proper comment.

Almost the only issue on which the Tories have been doing their job as an
informed, effective opposition is the crisis of our fishing industry. Michael
Howard last week reaffirmed his pledge that a Conservative government would take
back national control, if necessary by exercising the sovereignty of Parliament.

As our main opposition party, the Tories get pounds 4 million a year from the
taxpayers. If, as the Government itself admits, half our laws are now made in
Brussels, then for at least half that sum we are not getting value for money. To
show themselves fit to govern, the Tories must first show themselves to be a
proper opposition. That is the lesson to be learned from the humiliation which,
as will emerge tonight, the British people inflicted on them last Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              44 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

A cold wind blows for Mr Blair Labour had expected to receive a 'kicking' in
last week's elections - but was not remotely prepared for its brutality. PATRICK
HENNESSY and MELISSA KITE report on the wake-up call that has forced the party
to go back to the drawing-board

BYLINE: BY Patrick Hennessy and Melissa Kite

SECTION: News; International:Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1960 words

NOBODY could say they weren't warned. Labour's election team gathered in Tony
Blair's room at the House of Commons last Wednesday to receive details of the
party's eve-of-poll number crunching from Philip Gould, the Prime Minister's
personal pollster and not a man to shy away from doom-laden predictions.

Despite the absence of the Prime Minister, who was at the G8 summit of world
leaders at Sea Island in Georgia, the group of Cabinet ministers and senior
party officials were in reasonable spirits.

But this mood did not last long as Mr Gould began his report to the gathering,
which was chaired by John Prescott and which included Baroness Morgan, the Prime
Minister's political secretary, Ian McCartney, the party chairman, Pat McFadden,
a key behind-the-scenes fixer at Number 10, Matt Carter, Labour's youthful
general secretary, and David Hill, Downing Street's director of communications.

Sitting quietly at the edge of the group was one Peter Mandelson, the former
Northern Ireland Secretary who twice resigned from the Government but who was
now back at the centre of decision making as Labour's unofficial spin doctor in
chief and key election strategist.

Thursday night would be "awful" for Labour, a lugubrious Mr Gould warned,
according to one of those present. The Tories would get 40 per cent of the
popular vote, or close to it. Labour was in line for significant losses in local
council polls, mainly to the Tories in the south and to the Liberal Democrats in
the north, as its traditional supporters either stayed away or sought to punish
the Government for the Iraq war and its aftermath. The euro-election results, to
be announced on Sunday evening, would be "even worse". Labour, not just the
Tories, were losing "loads of votes" to the UK Independence Party and its simple
policy of pulling out of the EU.

As the first council results, just after midnight on Friday morning, bore out Mr
Gould's warnings, one of the first Cabinet ministers in the firing line was John
Reid. The health secretary, appearing on BBC1's election round-up, put forward a
textbook defence, the result of many brainstorming meetings over the previous
few days. Iraq had indeed proved a problem. Had not the Prime Minister himself
alluded to the "shadow" which the war had cast over Labour's campaign?
Nevertheless, the Tories had really only done as well as William Hague had in
2000 - and look what happened to him a year later.

Labour's line held, just, until the next morning, when David Blunkett was
interviewed on Radio 4's Today programme. The Home Secretary spoke with
catastrophic candour when quizzed by the presenter James Naughtie about a
performance which, by then, had seen the party lose such strongholds as Burnley,
Tamworth and Oxford and plunge into third place in terms of popular vote, the
first time this had happened to a governing party in any set of elections in
living memory. Labour had been given, as Mr Prescott elegantly stated, a
"kicking."

But Mr Blunkett ripped up the script and went far beyond his brief, at one point
claiming he was "mortified" by his party's performance. His choice of words
sparked instant fury at Downing Street, where Mr McFadden, a dour Scot, was
heard to remark that the Home Secretary should "correct himself".

Labour's blame game was now in full cry. With the leading scapegoat (Mr Blair
and his Iraq policy) still detained across the Atlantic, the search was on to
find a fall guy much closer to home.

Mr Mandelson was keen to point the finger at Mr Hill - having already attacked
him mercilessly at a strategy meeting on Monday. "Peter cruelly exposed David's
failings by asking out loud what the requirements of the broadcasters were,"
said one of those present. "He then said 'Oh, David will know because he'll
already have asked them, won't you David?' Of course, Hill hadn't."

Mr Mandelson has questioned Mr Hill's abilities ever since he was appointed to
replace Alastair Campbell and is said to believe that Downing Street's media
operation is now a shadow of its former glory.

As Friday drew on, bringing more bad news with the loss of Newcastle, Leeds,
Doncaster, Slough and Bridgend, tempers became even more frayed and the Prime
Minister prepared to fly back, yet again, into a political storm. The hitherto
obscure Labour backbencher Christine McCafferty became the latest MP to cast
doubt on Mr Blair's future, calling on him to "hold his hands up and say 'I got
it wrong' over Iraq." If he did not, the member for Calder Valley added, "I
think many voters will think it is time to have a different leader." She summed
up the election results by saying that Labour MPs were "really feeling the cold
wind blowing".

Almost farcically, one of Labour's pitifully rare successes on Friday was to win
back control of Hartlepool, where Mr Mandelson has his parliamentary seat.
"Labour may have had a bad day in other parts of the country," the
twice-resigned Cabinet minister brazenly declared, "but the sun is shining in
Hartlepool." This sparked an explosion of mirth from some of Labour's younger
strategists. "Oh, great," said one, with heavy irony. "That's something for us
to build on at the general election."

Labour's biggest victory was, of course, in London, where Ken Livingstone -
contrary to early predictions - cruised to a relatively comfortable win over the
former Tory transport minister Steve Norris, and was re-elected Mayor. However,
Labour lost seats on the London assembly, assuring Mr Livingstone of a much
tougher time getting his key policies through than he was used to in his first
term.

At one point on Friday, before the London result was in, things were looking so
bad that Gordon Brown, who had been sneered at by Blairites earlier in the week
for doing his "usual trick" of disappearing in a crisis, took to the television
studios. Labour would win the general election with Mr Blair at the helm, the
Chancellor declared, adding: "I am happy with the job I am doing."

At exactly the same time, in what looked like a carefully plotted twin-track
approach, Mr Blair appealed to his party to "hold its nerve" in a televised
interview from Washington after attending the state funeral of Ronald Reagan.
His comments, and the Chancellor's appearance, only reinforced the sense of
panic in Labour ranks.

Neither did the remarks by Mr Brown and Mr Blair succeed in entirely dampening
down the renewed, though relatively low-key, speculation about the Prime
Minister's future. Nick Brown, the former Labour chief whip who has close links
to the Chancellor, said, after digesting the scale of disaster in his Newcastle
heartland: "I will be discussing what has happened with colleagues over the
weekend. The voters were sending us a message on Iraq, asylum, and senior
figures in the Government."

One such senior figure, close to Mr Blair, spoke of the frustration felt at
Downing Street that the recent spate of better news from Iraq - in particular
the resolution unanimously passed by the United Nations Security council on the
country's future - had come too late to filter through to voters. He added:
"They were always going to give us a kicking because of Iraq anyway."

One of the key questions as Labour seeks to learn from its mistakes this year
and to prepare for a general election expected in a year's time is: Will Mr
Blair be able to draw a "line in the sand", a phrase beloved by Downing Street
officials, under Iraq or will it continue to eat away at his credibility and
leadership? Events still to come, including the full findings of the Iraq Survey
Group (charged with finding evidence of weapons of mass destruction) and Lord
Butler's inquiry into the intelligence behind the decision to go to war, offer
Mr Blair little respite.

Things looked no better by yesterday morning when the full horror of Labour's
losses had sunk in. Robin Cook, the former foreign secretary who resigned on the
eve of the Iraq war, bluntly stated that it was "not enough" for Mr Blair simply
to call on Labour members to "hold their nerve". He must show them that he had
learned lessons and that never again should British troops be sent on
"adventure" simply to appease an American president who was extremely unpopular
in Britain.

Margaret Beckett, the environment secretary, took a deliberately cautious line,
making clear that Saddam Hussein was a "one-off" and that the Iraqi experience
was unlikely to be repeated.

As Cabinet ministers spoke out in defence of Mr Blair, it became clear, to
Labour strategists at least, that the party's performance in the euro-elections
could be even worse than their drubbing in the council polls. Senior figures at
Number 10 admitted that tonight's results could see Labour support fall as low
as 22 or 23 per cent.

The party's strategy of tacitly encouraging support for the UK Independence
Party - in a bid to damage the Tories - was in clear danger of backfiring badly
as Eurosceptic Labour voters abandoned Mr Blair for the UKIP.

Labour's "fightback" strategy, a phrase ominously redolent of the last days of
John Major, is clear. Tomorrow, Mr Blair will address a meeting of Labour
backbenchers. On Tuesday he will hold his monthly news conference at Downing
Street and later in the week he will make a "keynote" speech on the public
services. Party insiders claim the longer-term plan is also in place.

One said: "It all boils down to three key questions: 1. Can Michael Howard make
Iraq a general election issue? We don't think he can as the Tories have been on
board from the start and any changes can be derided as opportunism; 2. Will
voters want to give us another kicking over Iraq having done so this year? We've
got to try to make sure they don't; 3. How do we make the general election
campaign a debate about domestic issues? The challenge is to draw clear dividing
lines between ourselves and the Tories."

For their part, the Conservatives claimed victory for being the only party not
to lose seats and for achieving their greatest lead over Labour since 1992.
Labour had suffered its worst performance in living memory, the Tories said.

Playing down the significance of the European elections, the Tories said the
council results were the only ones that mattered because they were fought on a
range of issues. A key aide of Michael Howard admitted that Europe was now
effectively defunct as an issue on which the Tories could ever hope to win.

"I doubt whether Europe has ever been the sole determinate of a general
election. People take a range of issues into account. Europe can be one of them
but far more important will be issues of health and education where we will set
out our policies and where Michael has made clear the battle will be fought. It
is highly unlikely that the general election will be fought on a single issue
such as Europe."

While claiming the Tories now had a strong base from which to build, he would
not predict a general election victory or say anything more optimistic than "we
will go all out to win it". Privately, the Tories admit they have yet to reach
levels of support that suggest they have a real chance of forming the next
government.

There are signs that the Prime Minister's "Iraq for the Iraqis" strategy is
beginning to bear fruit internationally. And despite this weekend's rumblings of
discontent, there is still little evidence of a serious internal challenge to
his leadership.

However, there is no getting away from the viciousness of the kicking Mr Blair
has suffered. Four years ago the Prime Minister proclaimed Ken Livingstone would
be a "disaster" as London Mayor. Now he is forced, behind gritted teeth, to hail
the Left-winger's narrow win over Conservative Steve Norris, as a rare Labour
victory in a sea of defeat.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              45 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 12, 2004

Howard: I'm on the way to No10

BYLINE: PAUL EASTHAM

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 588 words


A JUBILANT Michael Howard claimed last night that the Tories had opened up
enough of a gap over Labour to win the next general election.

After his party grabbed the biggest share of the vote in the local elections he
said the Conservatives had delivered on his promise to be a party for everyone
in Britain.

He spoke as his party looked certain of a 38 per cent share in the polls,
putting them 12 per cent ahead of Labour who were pushed into third place.

The Tory leader brushed aside criticism from polling experts who said that,
while it had been a good night for his party, it would not quite be good enough
to put him in Downing Street.

They said he needed to score at least 40 per cent in the polls to stand any
chance of winning the General Election expected next May.

With more than three-quarters of the results declared last night, the Tories had
gained control of 11 councils including two from Labour and one from the Liberal
Democrats, with the remainder won from no overall control.

Among the most significant results was retaking Trafford, one of their former
strongholds in the North West. Mr Howard said: 'When it comes to the General
Election, what's important is the gap between the Conservative and Labour
parties. We have to be 11.5 points ahead to win the general election.

On last night's results, we were 12 points ahead.' He added: 'We had excellent
results last night. We are now represented up and down the country in cities
where we want to play an important part.

'What I'm really concerned about is that we should get the country on the right
track.' He said he was looking forward to taking on Labour at the next General
Election. Outside Trafford town hall, where the party seized power, he said:
'When I became leader, I said we would become a party for all Britons and all
Britain. After last night that is now the case.

'Britain is a great country, but we could be doing so much better.' Mr Howard
said the Conservatives would continue to offer their agenda of small government
with greater freedom for individuals.

'We will build on the achievements of last night and I am very much looking
forward to the next general election.' Also celebrating was the UK Independence
Party, which made inroads in the local elections in a sign that more voters want
Britain to withdraw from the European Union.

It won a council seat in Hull and another in Derby, while it was expected to
make gains in the London Assembly. But it lost one seat in South Cambridgeshire.

A poll predicted that UKIP will win 12 out of 78 seats in the European elections
when the results are declared tomorrow.

UKIP is expected to take votes from the Conservatives in the European Parliament
elections.

The party has enjoyed a high-profile campaign thanks to the candidacy of Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the former TV presenter.

The British National Party took three seats from Labour in Epping Forest, but
failed to gain ground on Burnley Council, where it slipped into fourth place.
The far-Right party lost one seat to the Conservatives but gained one from
Labour in the Lancashire town.

It secured its first foothold in Bradford, scene of race riots three years ago,
where it took four seats, but failed to win any in Oldham one of its major
targets. With results in from 150 councils, the party was only one seat up
nationally. It held 16 before the poll.

ELECTION Springboard for success? Michael Howard with Tory leader Susan Fildes
in newly-won Trafford

END

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              46 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 12, 2004

But it isn't just Mr Blair who needs to worry

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 669 words


POLITICAL parties always manage to find some comfort in election results perhaps
only through discovering a sign that their rivals have fared even worse.

But the truth is that these results are bad for Labour.

For the first time in history, a governing party has been forced into third
place in a national opinion test.

Labour lost a quarter of the town hall seats it was defending and now has fewer
councillors in every big city than at any time in the last ten years.

Projected nationally, Labour's vote was as much as four per cent behind the
Liberal Democrats and 12 per cent below the Conservatives.

Unhappiness over the delivery of public services almost certainly was key,
rather than anger about Iraq.

This will be a hard lesson for the Prime Minister. But he will undoubtedly argue
that it is difficult to take the Tories seriously as an alternative government
when they cannot elect a single councillor in Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle
or Oxford and are only the third party in both Leeds and Sheffield.

Although it now has fewer councillors than since the 1970s, Labour can take
comfort from its victory in Stoke-on-Trent and in holding off challenges in
Derby, Reading and, above all, Birmingham.

The truth is that neither Blair nor Michael Howard is currently a vote winner.

Even so, Labour is still ahead on the basic issues such as the economy and looks
likely to be re-elected in the General Election expected next year.

And, despite its drubbing, this was not Labour's most terrible debacle. Back in
1967 and 1977, Labour governments were severely battered in local elections.

As for the Tories, they remain worse off than a decade ago when you count the
number of seats overall and those within each of the major cities.

Indeed, Howard's leadership yielded no more councillors than William Hague's
party did in 2000.

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats have shown themselves remarkably adept at
siphoning off anti-Labour votes. 'Divide and rule' has always been a good
Machiavellian maxim. But Labour leaders won't mind too much since they prefer
any hostile vote to be split: it is much less dangerous to be attacked by two
enemies than by one.

One of the most intriguing aspects of Thursday's vote is that the diversity of
the vote is greater than ever before, with many smaller parties featuring well.

In some areas, there was also a marked anti-incumbent tendency. For example, the
Liberal Democrats suffered setbacks in Norwich and Cheltenham while Labour was
humiliated in Rossendale and Swansea.

Mercifully, the BNP made no advance but the Greens showed their potential as one
more alternative to the main political juggernauts.

Importantly for Labour, it triumphed in the London mayor election, even if Ken
Livingstone is not the most orthodox of Blairites.

Of course we have to wait until tomorrow to learn what has happened in the
European elections.

These results will be very different.

THERE has been an unusually large amount of crossvoting and the use of
proportional representation allows dissident voices to be heard.

Indeed, under such a system, just 10 per cent of the vote can manage to win a
seat rather than being wasted under the traditional first-past-the-post system.

Whereas only six per cent voted for minor parties in council contests, perhaps
three times as many will have done so in the European poll. The result will be
that both UKIP and the Greens will make some serious inroads.

Tomorrow, the results may well prove that barely 50 per cent of voters have
chosen to support either of the two main parties another record low.

Above all, the Tories will be highly embarrassed. Although their share of the
council vote has given them a big boost, the Euro vote will be chastening.

Neither Blair nor Howard will be toppled by these elections but both men will
come under unprecedented scrutiny in the weeks ahead.

David Butler is a fellow of Nuffield College, Oxford END

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              47 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 12, 2004

A KICKING FOR BLAIR

BYLINE: PAUL EASTHAM

SECTION: ED_2ND_LTV; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words


TONY BLAIR faced calls to quit from his own MPs last night after Labour was
humbled at the polls.

In the worst local election defeat suffered by any British government, Labour
finished a dismal third.

After losing hundreds of seats in a powerful pincer movement by the Tories and
LibDems, the Premier urged his party not to panic.

Admitting that lessons had to be learned, he added: 'I think it is a question of
holding our nerve and seeing it through and realising, yes, Iraq has been an
immensely difficult decision.

'I think our response should be to make sure we carry through and implement the
radical programme we have introduced.' Asked if he felt he was still the right
person to lead the party, he replied: 'It makes me want to see through what we
have begun.' Labour's share of the vote plunged to 26 per cent in a clear sign
that the Government can no longer take a third term for granted.

The poor performance was even worse than the paltry 28 per cent share Labour
achieved under Michael Foot's faltering leadership in the 1983 General Election.

That grim statistic alone was enough to frighten Labour MPs in marginal seats,
who admitted privately for the first time that they could be heading for the
dole queues.

As big gains rolled in for the Tories, Michael Howard claimed that he had opened
up a sufficient gap from Labour to win the next General Election.

Pressure on Mr Blair's leadership came to a head when even the
seemingly-impregnable citadel of Newcastle City Council fell to the LibDems -
ending 30 years of unbroken Labour rule.

That symbolic setback sent tremors through the North-East, where leading lights
of New Labour such as Peter Mandelson, Alan Milburn, Stephen Byers, David
Miliband and Mr Blair himself have constituencies.

Labour also lost control of the former mining area of Bassetlaw for the first
time since 1979, as well as suffering defeats in Doncaster, Burnley, Hastings,
Oxford, Swansea, Leeds and St Helens.

Ironically, one of the few crumbs of comfort for the Premier was that his
archcritic Ken Livingstone was reelected Mayor of London.

With almost all of the results in last night, Labour had lost more than 460
seats. The Tories had gained more than 260 and the LibDems more than 130.

The BBC predicted that the Tories would end up with 38 per cent of the vote. The
Lib-Dems outperformed Labour for the first time by coming second with 30 per
cent.

If these results were repeated at a General Election, Mr Blair would be out of
office and the Tories would be the biggest party in a hung Parliament.

Dissident Labour MPs seized on the results to pordeclaring-tray their leader as
an electoral liability.

In an ominous development for the Premier, former Agriculture Minister and
Labour chief whip Nick Brown, a close ally of Gordon Brown, blamed the Premier
for the debacle and chillingly hinted it was time for him to go.

'I will be discussing what has happened with colleagues over the weekend,' he
said. 'The issues on the doorstep for the voters, and in this they were sending
us a message, were Iraq, asylum dispersal and senior figures in the Government.'
No one at Westminster doubted last night that the 'senior figures' he was
referring to included Mr Blair and that the 'discussions' would centre around
replacing him with the Chancellor.

Clare Short, another Gordon Brown supporter, joined the demands for Mr Blair to
quit.

The former International Development Secretary, who resigned over the Iraq
issue, said: 'I think that the electorate is sending a message to Tony Blair
because the Labour Party seems incapable of correcting him.

'What we did in Iraq has brought disgrace and dishonour on Britain around the
world. As Tony Blair won't change the policy, the only way to make a correction
is for him to step aside from the leadership.' Former Defence Minister Peter
Kilfoyle warned that Mr Blair faced a 'volatile' situation among his MPs.

He said the party had been 'docile of late' but 'it may well exhibit the first
signs of panic as individuals recognise the first signs of their political
mortality'. Labour backbencher Christine McCafferty said Mr Blair must apologise
for the war or quit.

Cabinet heavyweights rushed to try to head off open revolt among party
activists.

Mr Brown, the man most likely to replace Mr Blair as Premier, launched himself
into a round of interviews in a show of solidarity.

He pointed out that decisions on Iraq had been taken by the Cabinet as 'a team'
and insisted that Mr Blair would lead the party into the General Election.

Deputy Premier John Prescott admitted voters had given Labour a 'kicking' for
supporting the war.

But he insisted that the General Election would be fought and won on the more
favourable battleground of public services.

Home Secretary David Blunkett privately infuriated Downing Street by bluntly
that he was 'mortifiedby the result.

He confessed that Labour had been split by the war. But he claimed the party had
not gone into 'meltdown' and insisted the Tories had not done well enough to win
the General Election.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said: 'The Prime Minister's position is very secure
and very well recognised around the country.' Polling experts pointed out that
it was the first time a party in government had come third in local elections.

The Tories had a good night, although their performance fell short of the
dramatic breakthrough they had hoped for. The gains included Trafford, Tamworth
and Swindon.

But defections by Tory voters to the UK Independence Party, which is calling for
withdrawal from the EU, deprived Mr Howard of an even more convincing victory.

Some Tory MPs will press their leader to toughen his stance on Europe to meet
the threat.

Mr Howard said his 38 per cent share of the vote was 'excellent'.

He brushed aside critics who said the party should be hitting 40 per cent by now
to stand a chance of winning the General Election.

The LibDems did well in the north against Labour while losing ground to the
resurgent Tories in the south.

William Hill cut the odds on a Tory General Election victory from 5/2 to 7/4.
Labour were 2/5, from 2/7, and the LibDems 66/1.

The odds on Mr Blair stepping down before the election were cut from 13/8 to
11/8.

Comment - Page 18 p.eastham@dailymail.co.uk

SEE PAPER OR CUTTINGS FOR TABLE

END

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LOSS OF TRUST: TONY BLAIR IN WASHINGTON YESTERDAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              48 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 12, 2004

Blair's debacle, Howard's day

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 603 words


IRAQ, Iraq, Iraqagain and again Labour politicians have seized on that one
excuse, as the awful truth unfolded about their worst local election debacle
since the dire days of Michael Foot.

Not since 1983 has the party been trounced into third place but then it was in
Opposition and trailing in the polls, at a time of vicious internecine
squabbling.

This result is even more dramatic, because Labour now in power and probably less
than 12 months from a General Election has lost control of so many of its
heartlands.

So is it true, as Ministers would have us believe, that this drubbing is simply
a oneoff blip, caused by the short-term unpopularity of what is happening in
Iraq?

And that everything else is just fine?

Hardly. After all, the Tories were resolutely in favour of this misbegotten war,
but still performed remarkably well on Thursday. The difference is that they
aren't perceived to have been dishonest.

Mr Blair, on the other hand, has been deeply damaged.

Dodgy dossiers . . . David Kelly's suicide . . . the demented vendetta against
the BBC. . . the promotion of John Scarlett, who was responsible for so much dud
intelligence . . . all these have deepened doubts about a man who once described
himself as 'a pretty straight sort of guy'.

New Labour may be desperate to shift the debate back to public services, but the
truth is that Mr Blair's disgraceful handling of the war undoubtedly a factor in
these results has brought into sharp focus the years of spin, double
announcements, character-assassination . . . and endless ineptitude.

Indeed, the demeaning shambles over postal voting this time which helped
increase turnout, but at a terrible price in fraud allegations, missing ballot
papers and utter confusion sums up this Government's incompetence.

A trusted Prime Minister might be able to turn all this around. Can Mr Blair?

Already there are MPs in vulnerable seats who worry whether the party's most
effective vote-winner has now become an electoral liability. They might be
forgiven for wondering if they would be better off under the leadership of
Gordon Brown, who has presided over this Government's one area of undisputed
success.

For the Tories, this is a moment of opportunity. Though these elections haven't
been quite the breakthrough Michael Howard hoped for, they mark a huge leap
forward for a party that only six months ago was on its knees.

Yes, some of the gloss may be knocked off that achievement when European
election results are declared tomorrow, if UKIP does as well as expected.

But surely the message of any UKIP success is that in a General Election voters
are more likely to turn to a genuinely eurosceptic party such as the Tories
rather than a Labour party determined to sign up to the European constitution
and abolish the pound.

Yet make no mistake: the Conservatives still face huge challenges. They need to
convince the public that they have rigorously thought-through policies and the
credibility to implement them So they have to spell out exactly how they propose
to reform an NHS that still fails too many patients, how they will rescue an
education system in the doldrums, how they can transform the disgrace of our
transport system.

And they must have the courage and conviction to speak up for the family, argue
the case for small government and explain how they will ultimately roll back the
everencroaching powers of the state.

The Tories have been given a tantalising glimpse of the promised land.

Everything now depends on whether they can rise to the challenge.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              49 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 12, 2004

Scots confound low turnout fears

SECTION: ED_SC2; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 255 words


THE turnout in Scotland for the European elections was higher than expected.

There were fears it may have fallen below the 1999 level of 24.8 per cent but
early indications suggested it could be exceeded.

Labour and Tory sources estimated a turnout of around 25 per cent based on
samples from polling stations around the country while the SNP predicted the
figure could be closer to 30 per cent.

A Labour spokesman said the party was 'genuinely not worried' about the result
north of the Border, which will be announced on Monday. He added: 'We phoned our
voters and there didn't seem to be any people deserting us.

'In order to go down to one seat we would have to do really pretty badly and I
just can't see that.'

In the last European Parliament election Labour secured three seats while the
Tories and the SNP took two each and the Liberal Democrats won one.

But the campaign was much tougher this time because the number of seats fell to
seven and several other parties have entered the political arena as serious
contenders, including the Scottish Greens, the Scottish Socialists and the UK
Independence Party (UKIP).

A Tory spokesman said: 'We know our message resonated with the majority of
Scottish people. We have spent the last five years defying opinion polls and we
are confident that we will do so again.' An SNP spokesman said: 'Labour's bad
day has been long predicted so this is what we would expect.

'The SNP is still very hopeful and we think the campaign went well.'

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 12, 2004

Blair's debacle, Howard's day

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 577 words


IRAQ, Iraq, Iraqagain and again Labour politicians have seized on that one
excuse, as the awful truth unfolded about their worst local election debacle
since the dire days of Michael Foot.

Not since 1983 has the party been trounced into third place but then it was in
Opposition and trailing in the polls, at a time of vicious internecine
squabbling.

This result is even more dramatic, because Labour now in power and probably less
than 12 months from a General Election has lost control of so many of its
English heartlands.

So is it true, as Ministers would have us believe, that this drubbing is simply
a oneoff blip, caused by the short- term unpopularity of what is happening in
Iraq?

And that everything else is just fine?

Hardly. After all, the Tories were resolutely in favour of this misbegotten war,
but still performed remarkably well on Thursday. The difference is that they
aren't perceived to have been dishonest.

Mr Blair, on the other hand, has been deeply damaged.

Dodgy dossiers . . . David Kelly's suicide . . . the demented vendetta against
the BBC. . . the promotion of John Scarlett, who was responsible for so much dud
intelligence . . . all these have deepened doubts about a man who once described
himself as 'a pretty straight sort of guy'.

New Labour may be desperate to shift the debate back to public services, but the
truth is that Mr Blair's disgraceful handling of the war undoubtedly a factor in
these results has brought into sharp focus the years of spin, double
announcements, character-assassination . . . and endless ineptitude.

Indeed, the demeaning shambles over postal voting this time which helped
increase turnout, but at a terrible price in fraud allegations, missing ballot
papers and utter confusion sums up this Government's incompetence.

A trusted Prime Minister might be able to turn all this around. Can Mr Blair?

Council elections, of course, took place only in England this time, but Blair's
reputation in Scotland is suffering as badly.

Already there are MPs in vulnerable seats, especially in Scotland, who worry
whether the party's most effective votewinner has now become an electoral
liability. They might be forgiven for wondering if they would be better off
under the leadership of true Scot Gordon Brown, who has presided over this
Government's one area of undisputed success.

For the Tories, this is a moment of opportunity. Though these elections haven't
been quite the breakthrough Michael Howard hoped for, they mark a huge leap
forward for a party that only six months ago was on its knees.

Yes, some of the gloss may be knocked off that achievement when European
election results are declared tomorrow, if UKIP does as well as expected.

But surely the message of any UKIP success is that in a General Election voters
are more likely to turn to a genuinely eurosceptic party such as the Tories
rather than a Labour party determined to sign up to the European constitution
and abolish the pound.

Yet make no mistake: the Conservatives still face huge challenges. They have to
spell out exactly how they propose to reform an NHS that still fails too many
patients, how they will rescue an education system in the doldrums, how they can
transform the disgrace of our transport system.

The Tories have been given a tantalising glimpse of the promised land.

Everything now depends on whether they can rise to the challenge.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              51 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 12, 2004

DUMP BLAIR

BYLINE: by MACER HALL Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 485 words


BATTERED Tony Blair faced demands to quit last night - after Labour's
devastating election rout.

Jittery Labour MPs turned on the Prime Minister as the party slumped into a
humiliating THIRD place in town hall polls.

With both the Tories and Lib Dems celebrating spectacular gains, the slap in the
face from voters was a massive blow to Mr Blair's authority.

Most worringly for the Prime Minister, Labour suffered disastrous losses in its
own socialist heartlands.

Once staunchly red Newcastle turned Lib Dem in a historic switch after 30 years
of Labour control.

As final votes were still being counted last night, Labour was on course to lose
control of at least seven councils.

The election result massively boosted Tory hopes that Michael Howard could win
the next general election as the Conservatives polled 38% of votes, while the
Lib Dem share leapt up to 30% - leaving Labour's share of the vote at a
miserable 26%.

Last night, bookies William Hill slashed the odds on a Tory victory in next
year's general election from 5-2 to 7-4 as the poll disaster sent shockwaves
through Labour backbenches.

Ex-Cabinet minister Clare Short said: "The electorate is sending a message to
Tony Blair because the Labour Party seems incapable of correcting him. As he
won't change policy, the only way to make a correction is for him to step aside
from the leadership."

Backbench Labour MP Christine McCafferty called on Mr Blair to apologise for his
blunders, adding:

"There clearly are issues of trust.

"If the Prime Minister were to hold his hands up and say 'I got it wrong' - and
perhaps apologise - then maybe people would be willing to trust him again. If
not, many voters will think it's time for a new leader."

And former minister Peter Kilfoyle said: "Tony Blair will decide sooner or later
whether he is an electoral asset or a liability to his party."

Labour leaders admitted voters had given them a "kicking" and blamed the chaos
in Iraq for the backlash.

As Ministers surveyed the electoral devastation, Home Secretary David Blunkett
admitted being "mortified" and "traumatised" by the defeat.

He was even desperately hoping for England's soccer heroes to thrash the French
in the crunch Euro 2004 clash on Sunday - to lift the gloom.

"If England win, maybe it will be the fillip we need, " said Mr Blunkett, who is
heading off to Portugal.

Hailing the Tory revival, Michael Howard said: "We had excellent results and are
now represented up and down the country in cities where we want to play an
important part."

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy was delighted by "the party's best ever result",
adding: "It is an encouraging omen."

Mr Blair - who was attending former US President Ronald Reagan's funeral last
night - faces more bad news in Sunday's Euro poll results.

Exit polls suggest success for the anti-EU UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              52 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Crisis for Blair as Labour slumps in polls

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor and Toby Helm in Washington

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 890 words

TONY Blair called on the Labour Party to "hold its nerve" yesterday after it
slumped to third place in the local elections in the worst mid-term performance
by a governing party in living memory.

As his leadership came under intense pressure, Mr Blair dismissed suggestions
that he would step down before the next election.

Labour lost more than 400 councillors across England and Wales, sending shock
waves throughout the party and demonstrating that it can no longer take a third
term in power for granted.

Labour's 26 per cent share of the vote was even worse than the 28 per cent
achieved in the 1983 general election under Michael Foot, widely recognised as
the lowest point in its post-war fortunes.

The Conservatives claimed that they had secured a launching pad for winning the
next general election after gaining more than 200 seats and re-establishing a
credible presence in towns and cities for the first time in a decade.

Labour suffered a further drubbing at the hands of the Liberal Democrats, who
achieved a stunning success in Mr Blair's north-east backyard by winning control
of Newcastle city council, a Labour fiefdom for 30 years. Labour's defeats were
heaviest in some of its northern heartlands, losing control of Doncaster,
Bassetlaw and Leeds. It fared marginally better in Wales, but still lost control
in Cardiff and Swansea.

There was relief for Labour when Ken Livingstone - recently re-admitted to the
party - was re-elected for a second term as London mayor after beating off a
strong challenge from Steve Norris, the Conservative candidate.

Mr Livingstone said rumours of the death of the Conservative Party had been
"rather overplayed".

The Prime Minister was told of the scale of Labour's losses as he delayed his
return from the G8 summit to attend the state funeral in Washington of the
former United States president Ronald Reagan.

In a television interview before flying back to London, Mr Blair accepted that
lessons had to be learned, but denied that Thursday night's defeats meant Labour
was on course to lose the next election.

Asked if he was still the right person to lead the party, Mr Blair told Sky
News: "It makes me want to see through what we have begun".

He acknowledged that Labour had been hit by the "anger" many people felt over
Iraq, but said the situation there would improve in the coming months, and then
the voters would focus on the Government's record on the economy and public
services.

"It is a question of holding our nerve and seeing it through and realising,
'yes, Iraq has been an immensely difficult decision'," he said.

Although Labour claimed that the Tories had fallen short of the breakthrough
needed to return to power, John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister,
acknowledged that the Government had received a "kicking" from the voters.

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said he was "mortified" that Labour had not
done better but denied that the party's losses amount to "meltdown".

But Labour backbenchers were openly questioning whether Mr Blair, who passes his
10th anniversary as Labour leader next month,
should lead the party into a third general election. Christine McCafferty, the
Labour MP for Calder Valley, told BBC radio that anger over the war had
virtually "obliterated" the Government's many achievements since 1997 and there
were issues of trust for Mr Blair over Iraq.

"If the Prime Minister were to hold his hands up and say 'I got it wrong' and
perhaps apologise, then maybe people would be willing to trust again. But if he
doesn't do that, then I think many voters will think it is time to have a new
leader."

Mr Blair will address a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party at the House
of Commons on Monday in an attempt to steady nerves.

But Peter Kilfoyle, the Labour MP for Liverpool Walton, predicted the "first
signs of panic" among Labour MPs and said Mr Blair would have to decide whether
he was "an electoral asset or liability to his party".

Michael Howard paid a flying visit to Trafford, Manchester, to highlight the
party's success in winning the council for the first time for 10 years. "We have
to be 11.5 points ahead to win the general election. On last night's results, we
were 12 points ahead," the Tory leader said.

The Conservatives face an anxious weekend as they await the outcome of the
separate European election which will not be declared until 9pm tomorrow after
the polls have closed in the other 24 EU countries.

The UK Independence Party won two council seats in Hull and Derby, but claimed
last night to have polled stronger in the Euro-elections, and could win at least
European Parliament 10 seats tomorrow. The Liberal Democrats, who campaigned on
an anti-war ticket, appeared to have picked up disaffected Labour voters.

The full result in Birmingham's council elections will not be known until
tomorrow after officials and candidates agreed to postpone a second recount
almost eight hours after the final tally was expected.

The election count at Walsall descended into farce after a ballot box crammed
with votes was discovered under a table almost an hour after the result was
declared.

However, Walsall council's chief executive said the missing votes would not be
included in the total because, after counting them, it was discovered they would
not alter the results.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              53 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Mayor's re-election is relief for Labour

BYLINE: By John Crowley

SECTION: News; Elections 2004: Pg. 09

LENGTH: 363 words

KEN Livingstone was last night re-elected Mayor of London, a result that came as
a relief for Labour.

He captured 828,380 first and second preference votes, ahead of the Tory
candidate Steve Norris with 667,178, a margin of 10 per cent.

The Prime Minister had to overcome the opposition of John Prescott, the Deputy
Prime Minister, and Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, to re-admit Mr Livingstone to
the Labour Party after he stood as an independent in 2000.

Polls had indicated a much closer race. Mr Livingstone won 140,000 more votes
than Mr Norris, a margin that increased when second preference votes from other
candidates were added.

Mr Livingstone said afterwards it had been "logical and honest" for him to
rejoin the party, for which the result had been a wake-up call.

"Steve posed more of a threat than I would have liked. The election showed that
rumours of the death of the Conservative Party have been rather overplayed."

Mr Livingstone polled 37 per cent, down two per cent from 2000, on first
preference votes, while Mr Norris polled 29 per cent, up two per cent. Once
second preference votes were included, Mr Livingstone had 55 per cent against Mr
Norris's 45 per cent.

With results in from the 14 constituencies and 11 London-wide seats on the
assembly, it emerged that both Labour and Conservative groups had lost their
leaders - Lord Harris of Haringey and Eric Ollerenshaw. The Labour group leader
lost his Brent and Harrow constituency to the Tories while Mr Ollerenshaw failed
to gain a London-wide seat.

Overall, the Conservatives secured nine of the 25 seats - the same as in 2000.
Labour were down two seats to seven. The Liberal Democrats were up one seat to
five while the UK Independence party entered the London political scene for the
first time with two seats. The Greens were down one seat from three to two.

In the constituencies, the Tories gained Brent and Harrow, ousting Labour's Toby
Harris, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority.

The Conservatives comfortably held Barnet and Camden, Bexley and Bromley,
Croydon and Sutton, Ealing and Hillingdon, West Central, South West, Haven and
Redbridge, Merton and Wandsworth.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              54 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Labour expected losses, but where were the Tories? Analysis

BYLINE: By ANYTHONY KING

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1148 words

MOST of the local elections story is easily told but one part of it remains
tantalisingly mysterious - and the mysterious part could turn out to be the most
important.

Labour was, of course, comprehensively thumped. It took a battering in almost
every part of the country where elections were held and among almost every
section of the electorate.

Its handful of local successes could not begin to conceal the scale of its
overall defeat, which was among the worst suffered by either major party in
local elections since the Second World War.

Labour lost more than 400 councillors and control of at least 14 councils. Even
where it remained in control, its hold on power was significantly reduced. The
BBC's statisticians calculate that, if the whole country had voted in local
elections on Thursday and not just parts of England and Wales, Labour's share of
the popular vote would have been a paltry 26 per cent - down four points since
last year and 14 points since the Blair Government came to power in 1997.

Labour pessimists feared the worst. In the event, it was even worse than they
feared. Some of Labour's losses signify little. Extensive boundary changes were
always likely to return Trafford in Greater Manchester to the Tories and there
is nothing remarkable about Labour losing towns such as Bassetlaw and Burnley,
where the party's majorities were already in low, single figures.

However, other defeats point to a broad and deep - if, possibly, temporary -
alienation. To lose Bassetlaw and Burnley is one thing; to lose places such as
Hastings, Oxford, Ipswich, Cardiff, Swansea, Coventry and, especially, Newcastle
upon Tyne, is quite another. Many of Labour's former heartlands appear to be
suffering cardiac arrest.

If there is a single explanation, it probably lies in people's sense that the
Blair Government, like some of its predecessors, has begun to behave as though
it owns the country.

Free-born Englishmen and Welshmen want their governments to be leaseholders
rather than freeholders and to comport themselves as such - with due humility.
The Government's insistence on holding all-postal ballots in four northern
regions - despite the objection of the electoral commission, all the opposition
parties, the House of Lords and large sections of the local populations -
probably struck many voters as typifying the Blair Government's approach.

There are no indications that Labour benefited from what was seen by many as a
cynical, political manoeuvre. On the contrary, the party may have paid a price.
Labour suffered several of its worst drubbings in the North East, the North West
and Yorkshire.

Labour is almost certainly also paying a price for the long-term effects of what
might be called the "Alastair Campbell discount" - the belief that became
widespread during Mr Campbell's tenure as Tony Blair's press officer that this
Government promises more than it can deliver and, worse, announces that it has
already delivered when voters strongly suspect otherwise. Now, even when
ministers speak nothing but the truth, they are apt not to be believed.

This sense of alienation extends outwards to embrace such diverse phenomena as
this year's sharp rises in council tax (which the pre-election polls suggested
were on millions of voters' minds), the recent increases in petrol prices and,
not least, the belief, now held by a large majority, that the Prime Minister led
Britain into war in Iraq on a false prospectus.

It was probably Iraq that caused Labour to lose seats in Oxford and elsewhere to
the Greens and, in large urban centres, to the Liberal Democrats. Labour's
support fell considerably more heavily in Muslim areas than elsewhere.

There is probably also a gulf between the Euro enthusiasm of the Blair
Government and the attitudes of most voters. The United Kingdom Independence
Party made sporadic gains on Thursday and is likely to make even more when the
Euro results are announced late tomorrow.

The nation's broadly Euro-sceptic mood certainly did the Liberal Democrats no
harm. Theirs was the one chapter in the local election story that told of
scarcely qualified success.

To be sure, the Liberal Democrats lost Eastbourne to the Tories and Cheltenham,
Winchester and Norwich to no overall control but their individual losses were
more than offset by their overall gains. The BBC's national projection gave them
29 per cent of the popular vote - only one point down from last year's figure,
which was the Liberal Democrats' best ever. Charles Kennedy's party drove Labour
into third place, gaining more than 100 councillors and control of Kendal as
well as Newcastle.

While not gaining control of many whole councils, the Liberal Democrats ate
heavily into the Labour vote and picked up clutches of seats in places as far
apart as Bolton, Leeds and Cardiff.

The one mystery concerns the Conservatives. At first glance, they appear to have
performed prodigiously well. Just as Labour was losing votes and seats in almost
every part of the country, so the Conservatives were gaining them.

The Tories now have 250 more local councillors than they had two days ago and
they control roughly a dozen more councils. In addition to taking Eastbourne
from the Liberal Democrats, they wrested Tamworth in Staffordshire and Thurrock
in Essex from Labour.

They also gained from no overall control a diversity of councils, from
Rossendale in Lancashire through Dudley in the West Midlands to Brentwood in
Essex and Monmouthshire in Wales.

Best of all, the Tories' projected national share of the vote - 38 per cent -
was one of their best since the Thatcher era and a formidable 12 points better
than Labour's.

There can be no doubt that the Tories can seriously contemplate the possibility
of an outright general election victory for the first time in more than a
decade. If Labour is to win, it will have to mount a pre-election comeback of
almost unprecedented proportions.

Against that, the 38 per cent projected national vote share is no higher than it
was last year or under William Hague in 2000, a year before the Conservatives'
disastrous general election defeat.

The Conservatives also failed to gain control of a number of councils that they
had in their sights. They won Worthing but failed to take Woking. Although
Labour lost Bassetlaw, the Tories failed to take it. Chorley, which the
Conservatives should have won, remained under no overall control.

Where the Conservatives should have been making sweeping gains, they were often
sharing their success in almost equal measure with the Liberal Democrats.

They are also left contemplating the possibility that, when the results of the
Euro elections are declared tomorrow, they may find themselves again neck and
neck with Labour, having "lent" - or have they? - much of their support to UKIP.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              55 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Thursday's vote shows the Tories are back in the game

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 21

LENGTH: 633 words

Ministers loyal to Tony Blair struggled valiantly yesterday to explain away
disastrous local election results as the understandable consequence of mid-term
blues and voter skittishness over the Iraq war, but there can be no denying that
Labour performed dismally on Thursday. The economy is strong, inflation and
interest rates are under control, yet New Labour was heading for a humiliating -
and, for a government, unprecedented - third place in the overall share of the
vote.

More significantly, so far as Michael Howard is concerned, the Conservatives are
finally showing they can move beyond their electoral redoubt in picture postcard
rural areas of England and win back council seats in towns and cities where they
have been absent for far too long. At last they have shown they can make gains
in the capital and the big cities, such as Leeds, Manchester and Birmingham,
while challenging Labour for control of such important marginals as Doncaster,
Ipswich, and Hastings. No wonder the mood was febrile in Westminster yesterday
as backbench Labour MPs observed evidence of an overdue Tory revival. Just as
worrying for nervous Labour MPs, the Liberal Democrats showed how they can
capture seats in areas such as Newcastle and Oxford, where the Conservatives are
still nowhere.

Mr Howard would be wise not to read too much into Labour's poor showing, or at
least to draw the wrong lessons from the current humiliation of a party that
still appears so dominant at the national level. It would be foolish for Mr
Howard to be persuaded by the predictable malcontents on Labour's back benches
to base his forward strategy on the likelihood of the early demise of Mr Blair.
The Prime Minister has proved his resilience over seven years, and he can be
expected to bounce back, notwithstanding the alarm that will be sounded in
Labour circles this weekend as the election results are analysed. Indeed, when
the results of the European elections are announced tomorrow, Mr Howard, too,
might find himself under pressure from his own back benches to explain his
party's expected loss of support to the UK Independence Party.

Besides, if local elections were an infallible predictor of how an opposition
party performs in an imminent general election, William Hague would now be well
into his first term as Conservative Prime Minister. The Conservatives' share of
the vote on Thursday was not much better than their performance four years ago,
when premature optimism was confounded by New Labour's crushing victory in 2001.

If their share of the overall vote was encouraging, Conservative progress was,
in truth, patchy. The Tories tended to gain seats in areas where they ran
vigorous, focused and disciplined campaigns on local issues - in short, where
they spoke directly to voters and addressed their concerns head on. In big
cities such as Cardiff and Newcastle, where the Conservatives still lack the
confidence to compete, the Liberal Democrats were the beneficiaries of New
Labour's unpopularity. Come the next general election, the Conservatives will
have to take up the fight themselves all over the country, and strike back in
Wales and Scotland, where some local organisations have collapsed.

The progress made on Thursday does not in itself guarantee any success for the
Conservatives at the next general election, but it shows the party is back in
the game. The capture of scores of council seats in various and strikingly
diverse parts of the country is a just reward for Mr Howard's gritty leadership
in rebuilding the party and its local structures. Success at the next general
election is not guaranteed; it might not even be likely. But the Tories are
beginning to fight campaigns like a proper party of opposition, and one that
looks appropriately hungry for power.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              56 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Fantasies of deluded councillors turn off the electorate

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 171 words

SIR - Only the media have been getting their knickers in a twist over the
European elections. Here in the sticks, we yokels are completely relaxed.

This is because we realised months ago that the Strasbourg nodding shop was so
irrelevant to us that we could treat the Euro-poll like a by-election: an
opportunity to express not one's preferences, but one's grievances.

That is why millions of Labour voters have criticised Tony Blair for going too
far on Iraq; and Conservatives have admonished Michael Howard for not going far
enough on Europe.

But it was not on Thursday that Britain's future was up for saving. That will be
at the next general election. At that moment, lovers of this country with
something better than a bird's brain will not be wasting their crucial vote on
UKIP.

The idea of UKIP changing a darn thing is simply not an APR (achievable
political reality). The idea of the Conservatives taking Downing Street and
starting the long clawback to sovereignty is.

Frederick Forsyth

Hertford, Herts

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              57 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 12, 2004

KEN SQUEEZES BACK IN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 341 words


KEN Livingstone was re-elected Mayor of London last night after a nail-biting
day of counting, writes Alison Little.

Mr Livingstone, below, was declared victor over Tory Steve Norris in a contest
that was much closer than had been expected.

The result was declared after distribution of Londoners' second-preference votes
between the two frontrunners, after none of the candidates got more than half
the firstchoice votes.

In the first round, Mr Livingstone got 685,541 votes - 36.67 per cent of the
vote. That was up 23 per cent on the vote for Labour's official candidate Frank
Dobson in 2000 when Mr Livingstone stood and won as an independent. Mr Norris
polled 542,423 votes, which was 29.01 per cent of the total, up nearly two per
cent on his showing four years ago.

After second preferences from those who backed the other eight candidates were
shared, Mr Livingstone's total rose by nearly 143,000 to 828,380, and Mr
Norris's by around 125,000 to 667,178.

Liberal Democrat Simon Hughes was third with 284,645 votes - and the UK
Independence Party a strong fourth on 115,665.

There were a huge number of rejected votes - 385,952 in the mayoral election and
167,071 in the London Assembly election.

In his victory speech Mr Livingstone said he was "delighted" to have delivered a
Labour victory and that it had been "logical and honest" for him to rejoin the
party. But he warned that the result showed that there was no room for
complacency.

"Steve posed more of a threat than I would have liked, " he said.

"It was a good wake-up call to everybody that the election mattered and
demonstrably showed that rumours of the death of the Conservative Party have
been rather overplayed."

On the assembly, the Tories won nine seats as they did in 2000, Labour was down
two to seven, the Lib Dems were up one to five, the Greens dropped one and now
have just one member while UKip gained two seats for the first time.

The changes could make it more difficult for Mr Livingstone to get his budget
through.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              58 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 12, 2004

CALLS FOR PM TO QUIT AFTER POLLS DEFEAT; LABOUR BATTERED INTO THIRD PLACE

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 606 words


BATTERED Tony Blair last night faced Labour calls to quit after his party
plunged humiliatingly to third place in the local elections.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott admitted Labour had taken "a kicking" as it
lost hundreds of council seats and control of key heartland authorities. The bad
results sparked pressure on the PM to consider his position.

Former Cabinet minister Clare Short, who quit after the Iraq war, said: "I think
the electorate is sending a message to Tony Blair because the Labour Party seems
incapable of correcting him. What we did in Iraq has brought disgrace and
dishonour on Britain around the world.

"As Tony Blair won't change the policy, the only way to make a correction is for
him to step aside from the leadership."

MP Christine McCafferty said Mr Blair must apologise over the war, but suggested
even that might not be enough to save his skin.

Ms McCafferty, who voted against the Government over the war and other policies,
said: "There are clear trust issues that need addressing. If the Prime Minister
were to hold his hands up and say 'I got it wrong' and perhaps apologise, then
maybe people would be willing to trust again. But if he doesn't, many voters
will think it's time to have a new leader."

Anti-war former defence minister Peter Kilfoyle said Mr Blair faced "stormy
waters ahead" and would have to deal with MPs anxious for their futures when he
returned from attending a G8 summit and Ronald Reagan's funeral in America.

Mr Kilfoyle said: "Tony Blair will decide sooner or later whether he is an
electoral asset or a liability to his party."

Projections based on early council results in England and Wales put the Tories
on 38 per cent, the Lib Dems on 30 per cent and Labour on 26. The UK
Independence Party was polling about 15 per cent in the few hundred council
seats it fought but claimed its share was nearer 20.

As council results rolling in yesterday underlined the scale of Labour's woes,
senior Cabinet ministers were mobilised to steady nerves. David Blunkett
admitted he was "mortified" by the "bad" results. But he defended the PM,
saying: "We have to back him. The trauma of these results is extremely painful
for us but history teaches us that we can come out of this very quickly if we
have the confidence and the courage to do so."

The Home Secretary also hinted at how Labour would hope to capitalise on England
success in the Euro 2004 football championships in Portugal. Mr Blunkett, who
will be in Lisbon on Sunday for England's opener against France, said victory
"may be just the fillip to bring a bit of optimism, not just to the Government
but the British people, and that would do us all a power of good".

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said voters backed Labour on domestic issues and
would come through at the general election. He insisted: "The Prime Minister's
position is very secure."

Mr Prescott said Iraq had been a "shadow" over the elections, but conceded: "I'm
not saying we haven't had a kicking. It's not a great day for Labour." Commons
Leader and Welsh Secretary Peter Hain said: "We have taken a hit in this
election and people are sending us a message over Iraq and other issues."

Mr Blair will seek to regain the initiative next week with a televised news
conference and major speech on public services.

Michael Howard said the "excellent" results for his party gave the Tories an
ideal platform for the next general election.

The Lib Dems said their resilience against Tories in the south and strong
performance against Labour in the north proved that three-party politics was
back.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              59 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 12, 2004

Comment & Analysis: The votes that New Labour chooses to ignore at its peril:
This is certainly a protest, and Blair will have to start listening to it

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1204 words


In politics, a meltdown is often self-inflicted. If Labour ministers decide that
the dreadful performance of the party this week is not really a crisis, and can
be comfortably explained away, then they may avoid an outbreak of bitter
inter-party warfare that might be even worse than coming third in the local
elections. There are few situations, including this one, to which the best
answer is, "I know, let's all panic".

But "I know, let's all just ignore it" is no good either and that, in effect, is
what the government seems already to have decided. In public there is the ritual
breast-beating from David Blunkett, Patricia Hewitt and others, the promises to
listen harder and to take the message seriously. Collectively, they don't mean
it, though. They say coming third in the popular vote is mortifying. But no one
really seems ashen-faced or shocked.

Why not? First, they say it was all about Iraq, which is going better now - it's
just that the voters have been slightly slow to notice. Second, they say that
they always expected these local elections to be dire, a mid-term protest by
voters who will loyally return when the real question - who governs? - is put
before them. The radical policy ideas planned for a Blairite manifesto are ready
to be rolled out next week and political life will quickly move on.

Third and finally, they note that although Labour has been badly kicked, the
Tories have not advanced enough to look like a government-in-waiting.
Furthermore, they are probably about to go to war over Europe themselves. They
may have had a good day on Friday, but the Ukip effect will give them a bloody
Monday when the Euro election results become clear. Losing local seats is never
pleasant, but when you are losing them to Liberal Democrats, Greens and a wide
variety of local protest, rather than to your main opponent, you don't need to
worry too much. Seductive arguments, aren't they?

So let us look at the three forms of denial in turn. Was it really all about
Iraq? There is no doubt that the Lib Dems did well by focusing their campaigning
on that, but for weeks I have been told by rather smug Labour MPs that "Iraq's
not coming up on the doorstep" and "ordinary people aren't interested in Iraq;
it's just you chattering classes". In which case, how can Iraq now be a
catch-all excuse? Labour seems to have done particularly badly in places like
Newcastle, Leeds and St Helens among its own core voters. These are the very
salt-of-the-earth, got-their-heads-screwed-on people that Labour ministers have
said don't care a damn about Abu Ghraib prison or the missing weapons of mass
destruction.

With the new UN resolution and the disbanding of militias being promised in
Iraq, Tony Blair is said to be much more upbeat about all this; and maybe Iraq
will fade a bit as a political issue over the next year, though that is highly
unpredictable. But looking at the drubbing Labour's had in the great English
cities, and in key metropolitan areas, to assume that all will be well in the
Labour heartlands if Iraq becomes more stable seems unwise to the point of
madness.

What of the argument that local elections don't matter when it comes to
predicting a general election - that the same people who protested now will
return next year when forced to choose between Labour and the Tories? There is
clearly some truth in that. People behave very differently in local and general
elections. They have more latitude to express anger, without there being
dramatic consequences. The Tories did similarly well in 2000 under William Hague
and went on to be buried under Labour's second landslide the following year -
though Labour didn't come third four years ago, as it did this week.

Again, though, it is a dangerously complacent argument. The raw figures for the
crumbling Labour vote are pretty horrifying. Voting is partly about habit and
though many of the protestors who went Lib Dem or Green or whatever this week
will come back to Labour, others will have broken their emotional link with the
party for good. We should include in that many Muslim voters who are angry
enough about the war not to have forgotten all about it by next spring.

Look too at the London results. Ken Livingstone survived - despite shaking hands
with Tony Blair, not because of it - and he has a difficult London assembly to
deal with now. Further, postal voting does not seem to have dramatically altered
the turnout, so Labour's historic problems with apathy have not been sorted.
Local elections are not a straight read-through to general elections. But they
are not meaningless either. It isn't clever politics simply to ignore their
message.

Finally, what of the argument that Labour can take heart from the Tories'
failure to break through, and the rise of Ukip? The Tories have hardly done
badly. They have returned councillors, and in some cases to power, in parts of
England from which they'd been expelled for many years. The party grassroots in
key marginals will be cheered and reinvigorated. And this time, no one can be
sure they'll go completely mad and start attacking each other with hatchets,
however ingrained that character trait might be. They know there isn't long
before a general election. They know there is no alternative to Michael Howard.
They know they can "park" Europe until the referendum. And after Tony Blair
signs up for the constitution, probably next week, they will be sufficiently
angry with him to close ranks.

Nor can anyone on the centre-left take any comfort from Ukip's success. For a
start, they took a fair number of Labour votes. But the most important fact is
that withdrawal from the European Union is now openly discussed and supported by
a great swathe of our fellow citizens. How's that for a Labour success story
after seven years of leadership by a man who calls himself one of the most
pro-European leaders ever?

I am not suggesting that this is the time to declare a Labour civil war, or for
Gordon Brown to try to bring down Tony Blair, though inevitably the rumblings
have already started and may yet grow louder come the autumn. But it is
certainly time for the party to rethink its pitch to the country. People are
looking for clear, straightforward messages. They don't want clever-clever new
formulations about personalised services or "radical reform", drawn up by young
men in Whitehall bunkers, any more than they were impressed by John Major's
citizens' charter. They don't want to see Tony Blair grinning with George Bush,
or making high-flown speeches abroad.

They want to hear that a Labour government has been spending taxes on better
schools and hospitals, on more street patrolling by the police, and on more
generous support for poorer families. Which it has. It is time for the party to
slough off personality-cult sophistication and tell the truth about its basic
values and intentions - to sound less New and more Labour. That's the message of
this week.

It does require a real change of gear. My worry is that ministers are beginning
to sound as if everything is going brilliantly, with the tiny, irritating and
almost irrelevant exception of the votes.

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 12, 2004

'It could be the first warning of how this government could eventually lose
power': 'A warning of how this government could eventually lose power'

BYLINE: Jonathan Freedland

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words


This time they had daylight, but they were still peering in the dark. Usually
party activists, candidates and councillors, wannabees and has-beens learn their
fate in the depth of the night, a few hours after the polls have closed.
Yesterday "election night" came in the daytime - but that hardly made reading
the results any easier.

The counting took place during office hours, the tellers beginning their work at
Birmingham's National Indoor Arena at 9am. That sapped some of the tension, but
not all of it. For by teatime a pattern began to emerge, not a single, consis
tent message but a series of clues. What it amounted to wasn't neat and wasn't
pretty - but it could be the first warning of how the Labour government could
eventually lose power.

Bastions like Newcastle, Leeds, Doncaster and Bassetlaw fell, heartland cities
that Labour relies on. But a similar, if more muted, warning came in Birmingham,
where Labour feared its grip was loosening in a city it had ruled for 20 years.
The party was not wiped out; the feared Muslim backlash against Labour over Iraq
did not destroy all before it. Even so, Birmingham showed what the defeat of New
Labour, when it comes, might look like.

In this city the winning streak had lasted 20 years. Nationally, Labour has led
in the opinion polls for 12 years, ever since Black Tuesday humbled the Tories.
The Labour regime in Birmingham had a record it was proud of - presiding over
the modernisation of the city, transforming the much-derided Bullring centre
into a 21st century shopping precinct, all steel, glass and Selfridges. New
Labour makes similar, if larger-scale, claims for itself, claiming to have
shaped a New Britain.

But Birmingham's Labour party discovered that that is not enough. "We were due
for a good stuffing," one Labour councillor admitted privately, watching as the
first, unwelcome results flashed on a giant TV screen. "We've been an appalling
local authority." On core areas, like housing and social services, auditors had
given Birmingham a zero-star rating. Message for Tony Blair: once the reputation
for competence has gone, politicians become vulnerable.

It was not enough for Labour to brag that it had brought Selfridges to Brum.
Voters are not motivated by gratitude: they want to know what you'll do for them
next. Message for Tony Blair: You cannot run on your record over the last two
terms; you have to run on your manifesto for the next.

But the "shadow" over these elections, admitted by the deputy prime minister
John Prescott yesterday, was the war in Iraq. Muslim voters, a major force in
Birming ham, were expected to punish the Labour party they had supported for so
long by transferring their allegiance elsewhere.

Iraq certainly informed the decision of Mohammed Amir. Twenty four years old and
a security guard, he voted Labour in 2001. But not this time: he didn't vote at
all. "If a million people marched through London last year and that made no
difference, that shows there's no point to any of it."

Liberal Democrats here and across England were banking on voters like Mohammed
coming over to them: Lib Dem election literature pushed Iraq heavily, seeking to
defy the conventional wisdom that says foreign policy never turns elections -
and certainly not local ones.

In Birmingham that strategy hit a roadblock. In many of those Muslim wards where
anti-Iraq feeling was said to be running highest, Labour councillors were
reelected - on thumpingly high turnouts: 54% in Bordesley Green, 45% in Aston.

Lib Dems here had a simple explanation: they suspect electoral malpractice,
citing the mechanism that has become one of the dominant themes of the 2004
elections: postal voting. "We've been cheated," said Ayoub Khan, a Lib Dem
councillor who had just lost his seat in Aston, the place he described as the
"jewel in the crown" of his party's strategy. He said local bigwigs had come
into Asian homes, pressuring voters to cast their postal ballots in front of
them - insisting they back Labour. "This is the politics of Pakistan or
Bangladesh and they've brought it here," he said.

He threatened legal action, a pattern that could be repeated across the country.
Lib Dems in particular believe that postal voting may indeed have boosted
turnout - by rigging the ballots. This could haunt Labour over the next few
months, as even neutral observers accuse the government of ignoring pleas for
caution in expanding postal voting so rapidly.

The consequence, in Birmingham at least, is to have drowned out what would have
been another two crucial messages for Tony Blair: first, that the Iraq war
matters and can exact an electoral cost and, second, that no ethnic bloc can
ever be taken for granted.

But the prime minister was not the only man taking lessons from yesterday's
results - or bracing himself for the European count tomorrow. Michael Howard
will be thrilled to have gained the Peelite turf of Tamworth, to have fended off
the BNP in Dudley and to have proven that the urban north is no longer no-go
territory for the Tories by winning Trafford.

But he should also be jolted by the lacklustre Conservative performance
elsewhere. Birmingham is a case in point. They did creditably, drawing level
with Labour in their share of the vote. But they did not do nearly well enough.

If the Tories were on course for a general election victory, they would be
winning back a city like Birmingham or at least making deeper inroads. In 1983
the Conservatives held six seats in the West Midlands: now they are down to just
one.

Yesterday's results suggest they are inching forward, but not nearly as far or
as fast as they need to be. Witness the parliamentary seat of Birmingham Hall
Green: it was Conservative until 1997 and has to become Tory again if Howard is
ever to become prime minister. Yet yesterday the Liberal Democrats held all
three council seats in the area.

Howard has to rekindle that 1980s Midlands Thatcherism here and versions of it
around the country: on yesterday's evidence that is not happening.

His worries will surely only deepen tonight. Unless both pundits and players are
wrong, the UK Independence party (Ukip) will bite deeply into the Tory base
winning a clutch of European seats. With the Lib Dems snapping from his left and
Ukip on his right, Howard has every right to feel endangered just now.

As for Birmingham, it seemed headed for stalemate last night with Labour and the
Conservatives deadlocked. The full result will not be known until tomorrow. Some
predict a pact between the parties to govern the city together. That pleased one
Labour chieftan yesterday: "We're very close in many respects now anyway, aren't
we?" he asked, referring to the national as well as local parties. "We're all
melded into one now."

Perhaps that's true. If it is, it would explain the flight to the margins at
both ends: anti-war voters defecting from Labour to the Greens, Lib Dems or
others; rightwingers abandoning the Conservatives for Ukip. "Other" parties
scored 11% in Birmingham. It might explain, too, the majority of electors who
continued to stay away altogether - men like Mohammed Amir's friend, Imran, who
didn't vote on Thursday because, he reckons, all the parties "are the same".

That, surely, is a message for Michael Howard, Tony Blair and Charles Kennedy -
no matter how hard it is to make out.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 12, 2004

Elections 2004: Legal threat over 'photo finish' in Hull after postal forms go
astray: Delivered Raised turnout could be due to 'novelty' factor

BYLINE: Kevin Maguire

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 529 words


The first court challenge to the controversial system of blanket postal voting
was threatened last night in John Prescott's backyard.

A group of independent councillors in Hull, the power base of the deputy prime
minister, who masterminded the experiment, announced they were to take legal
advice over a disputed knife-edge result.

The independents claimed scores of homes failed to receive ballot papers in the
city's Derringham ward where, after six recounts, their standard-bearer lost by
just seven votes to the United Kingdom Independence party.

Chris Jarvis, the leader of Hull's independent group, said: "We will be seeking
legal advice and contacting the Electoral Commission to see what avenues of
appeal we have."

The abolition of ballot boxes in three northern regions and the East Midlands
has been marred by chaos and confusion with the Electoral Commission, a
government-appointed group, promising to publish a review in September.

Widespread concern has been expressed about the security of the 14m-plus postal
votes in the four areas, with two arrests made in Oldham of men who offered to
"look after" ballot papers. In Burnley a suspiciously high number of proxies are
to be examined.

Lancashire and Greater Manchester police are investigating claims that people
were bullied into handing over blank ballot papers to party canvassers. Similar
reports surfaced in Bradford.

Emergency polling booths were opened in Bolton when 6,000 papers were never
delivered while a number of councils admitted a significant minority of witness
forms were incorrectly completed, invalidating votes.

However, the postal initiative, allied with holding European elections on the
same day as council elections, did help to increase the turnout which by
lunchtime yesterday was about 40%, up around 9% on a year ago across England and
Wales.

The jump of 13% in postal voting regions compared with around 7% elsewhere
prompting some ministers to claim the pitfalls were more than compensated by a
big jump in the numbers voting.

In Sunderland, however, turnout dropped to 40% from 47% recorded last year when
postal balloting was also used in the council elections, suggesting improvements
may be down to the "novelty" factor.

There appeared to be no initial evidence that Labour had benefited from the
introduction of postal voting.

Howard Bernstein, returning officer in the north-west postal area, said the im-
proved turnout had justified the move. He dismissed as "glitches" the fraud
allegations and delivery problems of recent weeks.

Labour MP Bruce George, who presides over an organisation that monitors
elections across Europe, warned against complacency: "I am not suggesting the
whole system is bent. If there is abuse it is at the margins. But whole
elections can be won or lost in a handful of constituencies."

The pilot scheme was hastily implemented after peers delayed legislation,
arguing only two regions should have been piloted. Ministers will decide whether
to repeat or extend the experiment after receiving the commission's report, or
await technological developments to introduce electronic voting.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 12, 2004

Elections 2004: Euro fear for Tories as Ukip eyes top slot

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt: Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 290 words


Britain's political classes will hardly have a chance to draw breath before they
resume their places on the airwaves for tomorrow night's results of the European
elections.

Labour, which admitted yesterday it had received a "kicking" in the local
elections, will be hoping that the European spotlight turns on the Tories.

Opinion polls - and a reasonable showing in the local elections - indicate that
the United Kingdom Independence party could threaten the Tories' top slot in the
1999 European elections.

Ukip got around 15% of the vote in the council seats they contested, a figure
that may well be surpassed in the European election. This could knock the Tories
out of first place and allow Labour to come from third in the local elections to
first in the European poll.

Roger Knapman, the Ukip leader, held out the prospect of quadrupling the three
seats his party holds in the European parliament."We will be very disappointed
not to get more than 10 or 12 seats."

On Radio 4's The World at One Mr Knapman said it would be wrong to assume Ukip
would take votes only from the Tories. "It's the Labour vote that is
particularly soft. Where we are really having good results are in places like
Hull, Hartlepool and Derby - which are not really Conservative hotspots."

His remarks will alarm Labour strategists hoping that hardline Tory Eurosceptics
have accepted Tony Blair's invitation to adopt an "in or out" approach to Europe
by voting Ukip.

But if this does happen and the Tories fail to come first, Michael Howard would
suffer a severe blow. Critics, both in and out of the party, would say he was in
a weaker position than William Hague who breezed into first place in 1999 with
35.8% of the vote.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 12, 2004

Election 2004: Labour loses two seats in London assembly, including its group
leader

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 424 words


Labour's woes intensified yesterday as the party lost two seats on the London
assembly, including that of its group leader.

The biggest casualty was Toby Harris, leader of the Labour group on the assembly
and the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority. His 4,380 majority was
overturned as his vote was squeezed by other parties to give the Tories a 4,686
majority. Labour also lost a seat under the system of proportional
representation because of the extent to which its vote fell across London.

Where it held seats, it was with heavily reduced majorities. The Tories picked
up nine seats, but suffered one casualty after the PR calculations - Eric
Ollerenshaw, the party leader on the assembly.

But the most surprising development was the capture of two assembly seats by the
UK Independence party, its first entry into devolved London politics. Across the
capital, UKIP picked up a startling number of votes.

It polled 26,703 votes in Bexley and Bromley, a seat held by the Tories with
64,000 votes. In Croydon and Sutton, held by Conservative Andrew Pelling with
52,330 votes, UKIP took 15,203 votes.

The Liberal Democrats polled 28,636 and Labour took third place with 25,861.

The result revealed a strong showing by UKIP, which took 15,203 votes. UKIP also
polled strongly in Enfield and Haringey with 10,652 votes in a seat held by
Labour. UKIP scuppered Tory hopes of taking the seat by securing 8.58% of the
vote.The party also performed well in East London, taking 12% in the City and
East seat, which was held by Labour with a majority reduced by 16%.

Tony Travers, of the London School of Economics, said: "The UKIP showing is
notable because hitherto London has been seen as a relatively pro-Europe place.
They also appear to have killed off the possibility of a seat being taken in
London by the BNP."

Overall the Tories got nine seats, Labour seven, the Liberal Democrats five and
the Green party and UKIP two seats each.

The shape of the assembly is crucially important to Londoners, but also to the
mayoralty. The assembly's powers over the mayor are limited, but it can, with a
two-thirds majority, reject his budget.

It also has executive powers because of its stewardship of the appointments
committee. The mayor can make 12 political appointments, but the employment of
every other employee of the Greater London Authority must be channelled through
the appointments committee.

All parties are represented on the committee in proportion to the number of
seats they hold.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 12, 2004

Election 2004: Labour suffers in assembly while Ukip surge reveals capital's
sceptical side

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 510 words


Labour's woes intensified yesterday as the party suffered a humiliating drubbing
in the London assembly.

The biggest casualty was Toby Harris, leader of the Labour group on the assembly
and chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority. His 4,380 majority in Brent
and Harrow was overturned as his vote was squeezed by the other parties to give
the Tories a 4,686 majority.

There will also be speculation about the position of the UK Independence party
if - as looks possible - it wins one or more places on the London assembly. The
party's policy is to abolish the body.

The indications were apparently obvious to Labour at an early stage. It is
understood that Mr Harris's personal effects and furniture were removed from his
office on Friday morn ing. The loss will be particularly painful for Ken
Livingstone because the victor was Bob Blackman, a former Brent council leader.

The two were deadly enemies during Mr Livingstone's period as Brent East MP. Mr
Harris said: "It has been a tide against us. Electorally I am very disappointed
but I am proud of what I have been able to do for the people of Brent and
Harrow." Early results showed that where Labour held seats, it was with heavily
reduced majorities.

Ukip polled 26,703 votes in Bexley and Bromley, a seat held by the Tories with
64,000 votes. In Croydon and Sutton, held by Conservative Andrew Pelling with
52,330 votes, Ukip took 15,203 votes. The Lib Dems polled 28,636 and Labour took
third place with 25,861.

Ukip also polled strongly in Enfield and Haringey with 10,652 votes in a seat
held by Labour. Ukip scup pered Tory hopes of taking the seat by securing 8.58%
of the vote.

The party also performed well in east London, taking 12 % in the City and East
seat, which was held by Labour with a majority reduced by 16%. Tony Travers, of
the London School of Economics, said: "The Ukip showing is notable because
hitherto London has been seen as a relatively pro-Europe place. They also appear
to have killed off the possibility of a seat being taken in London by the BNP."

The results were delayed because of a number of spoiled papers. Voters involved
in "Super Thursday" - billed as the most complex election ever held in Britain -
struggled to record their votes.

There were also problems with the bar codes at the top of the ballot sheets.

Many ripped as election tellers pulled them from the book of voting forms. Each
had to be scrutinised and a decision made about whether they could be regarded
as valid. One estimate was that thousands of votes were having to be declared as
void.

The shape of the assembly is crucially important to Londoners but also to the
mayor. The assembly's powers over the mayor are limited but it can, with a
two-thirds majority, reject his budget. The assembly also has executive powers
because of its stewardship of the appointments committee. The mayor can make 12
political appointments but the employment of every other employee of the Greater
London authority must be channelled through the committee.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 12, 2004

Election 2004: 500,000 spoilt ballot papers in London's multi-vote confusion

BYLINE: Hugh Muir and Kevin Maguire

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 440 words


Hundreds of thousands of ballot papers were rejected in the London mayoral and
assembly elections, amid claims that they were badly designed and voters were
confused.

The results for London's 25 assembly seats were delayed because of a significant
number of spoiled papers. Around 167,000 of the voting forms relating to the
assembly were rejected. Another 385,000 mayoral voting forms were also declared
void.

Voters in the most complex election ever held in Britain struggled to record
their five votes, with many placing two crosses for their first preference in
the mayoral category, instead of one. There were also problems with the bar
codes at the top of the ballot sheets. Many were torn as election tellers ripped
the sheets from the book of voting forms. Each of them had to be scrutinised and
a decision made about whether they could be regarded as valid.

There are fears that Sunday's count for the EU elections may be similarly
affected.

Simon Hughes, the defeated Liberal Democrat mayoral candidate said: "The
rejected votes showed that a lot of people voted for two people as their first
preference."

One source involved in the administration of the election said the whole process
would be reviewed. However, he said the number of rejected papers was less than
four years ago.

Candidates and other onlookers in Walsall watched in amazement last night as a
ballot box crammed with votes was discovered under a table, almost an hour after
the result had been announced.

The chief executive added to their dismay when she said the missed votes would
not be added to the declared result.

And the first court challenge to the controversial system of blanket postal
voting was threatened last night in John Prescott's backyard. A group of
independent councillors in Hull, the power base of the deputy prime minister,
who masterminded the experiment, announced they were to take legal advice over a
disputed result.

The independents claimed that scores of homes failed to receive ballot papers in
the city's Derringham ward where, after six recounts, their standard-bearer lost
by just seven votes to the United Kingdom Independence party.

The abolition of ballot boxes in three northern regions and the east Midlands
has been marred by chaos with the Electoral Commission, a government-appointed
group, promising to publish a review.

Concern has been expressed about the security of the 14 million-plus postal
votes in the four areas, with two arrests made in Oldham of men who offered to
"look after" ballot papers. In Burnley a suspiciously high number of proxies are
to be examined.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 12, 2004

Elections 2004: How the capital voted

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1122 words


Barnet and Camdem

C hold

Brian Coleman (C) 47,640 (35.28%)

Lucy Anderson (Lab) 36,121 (26.75%)

Jonathan Simpson (LD) 23,603 (17.48%)

Miranda Dunn (Green) 11,921 (8.83%)

Magnus Nielsen (UKIP) 8,685 (6.43%)

Liz Wheatley (Respect) 5,150 (3.81%)

Humberto Heliotrope (CPA) 1,914 (1.42%)

C Maj 11,519 (8.53%)

4.05% swing Lab to C/Electorate 371,186/Turnout 135,034 (36.38%)

Bexley & Bromley

C hold

Bob Neill (C) 64,246 (40.42%)

Duncan Borrowman (LD) 29,992 (18.87%)

Heather Bennett (UKIP) 26,703 (16.80%)

Charlie Mansell (Lab) 24,848 (15.63%)

Ann Garrett (Green) 8,069 (5.08%)

Miranda Suit (CPA) 3,397 (2.14%)

Alun Morinan (Respect) 1,673 (1.05%)

C Maj 34,254 (21.55%)

2.02% swing C to LD/Electorate 397,075/Turnout 158,928 (40.02%)

Brent & Harrow

* C gain from LAB

Bob Blackman (C) 39,900 (33.99%)

Toby Harris (Lab) 35,214 (30.00%)

Havard Hughes (LD) 20,782 (17.70%)

Daniel Moss (UKIP) 7,199 (6.13%)

Shahrar Ali (Green) 6,975 (5.94%)

Albert Harriott (Respect) 4,586 (3.91%)

Gladstone Macaulay (CPA) 2,734 (2.33%)

C Maj 4,686 (3.99%)

4.24% swing Lab to C/Electorate 332,723/Turnout 117,390 (35.28%)

City & East

Lab hold

John Biggs (Lab) 38,085 (29.09%)

Shafi Choudhury (C) 23,749 (18.14%)

Oliur Rahman (Respect) 19,675 (15.03%)

Guy Burton (LD) 18,255 (13.94%)

Christopher Pratt (UKIP) 17,997 (13.75%)

Terry McGrenera (Green) 8,687 (6.64%)

Chris Gill (CPA) 4,461 (3.41%)

Lab Maj 14,336 (10.95%)

7.74% swing Lab to C/Electorate 437,298/Turnout 130,909 (29.94%)

Croydon & Sutton

C hold

Andrew Pelling (C) 52,330 (38.61%)

Steven Gauge (LD) 28,636 (21.13%)

Sean Fitzsimons (Lab) 25,861 (19.08%)

James Feisenberger (UKIP) 15,203 (11.22%)

Shasha Khan (Green) 6,175 (4.56%)

David Campanale (CPA) 4,234 (3.12%)

Waqas Hussein (Respect) 3,108 (2.29%)

C Maj 23,694 (17.48%)

1.27% swing LD to C/Electorate 376,175/Turnout 135,547 (36.03%)

Ealing & Hillingdon

C hold

Richard Barnes (C) 45,230 (32.42%)

Gurcharan Singh (Lab) 34,214 (24.52%)

Mike Cox (LD) 23,440 (16.80%)

David Malindine (UKIP) 14,698 (10.54%)

Sarah Edwards (Green) 9,395 (6.73%)

Dalawar Chaudhry (Ind) 5,285 (3.79%)

Salvinder Singh Dhillon (Respect) 4,229 (3.03%)

Genevieve Hibbs (CPA) 3,024 (2.17%)

C Maj 11,016 (7.90%)

1.11% swing Lab to C/Electorate 397,564/Turnout 139,515 (35.09%)

Enfield & Haringey

Lab hold

Joanne McCartney (Lab) 33,955 (29.21%)

Peter Forrest (C) 32,380 (27.86%)

Wayne Hoban (LD) 19,720 (16.97%)

Brian Hall (UKIP) 10,652 (9.16%)

Jayne Forbes (Green) 10,310 (8.87%)

Sait Akgul (Respect) 6,855 (5.90%)

Peter Wolstenholme (CPA) 2,365 (2.03%)

Lab Maj 1,575 (1.35%)

0.86% swing Lab to C/Electorate 343,617/Turnout 116,237 (33.83%)

Greenwich & Lewisham

Lab hold

Len Duvall (Lab) 36,251 (33.33%)

Gareth Bacon (C) 22,168 (20.38%)

Alex Feakes (LD) 19,183 (17.64%)

Timothy Reynolds (UKIP) 13,454 (12.37%)

Sue Luxton (Green) 11,271 (10.36%)

Stephen Hammond (CPA) 3,619 (3.33%)

Ian Page (Respect) 2,825 (2.60%)

Lab Maj 14,083 (12.95%)

3.00% swing Lab to C/Electorate 329,450/Turnout 108,771 (33.02%)

Havering & Redbridge

C hold

Roger Evans (C) 44,723 (34.58%)

Keith Darvill (Lab) 28,017 (21.66%)

Lawrence Webb (UKIP) 18,297 (14.15%)

Matthew Lake (LD) 13,646 (10.55%)

Malvin Brown (Res London) 6,925 (5.35%)

Ashley Gunstock (Green) 6,009 (4.65%)

Abdurahman Jafar (Respect) 5,185 (4.01%)

Juliet Hawkins (CPA) 2,917 (2.26%)

David Stephens (Third Way) 2,031 (1.57%)

Peter Thorogood (Ind) 1,597 (1.23%)

C Maj 16,706 (12.92%)

2.66% swing Lab to C/Electorate 350,652/Turnout 129,347 (36.89%)

Lambeth & Southwark

Lab hold

Valerie Shawcross (Lab) 36,280 (31.73%)

Caroline Pidgeon (LD) 30,805 (26.94%)

Bernard Gentry (C) 17,378 (15.20%)

Shane Collins (Green) 11,900 (10.41%)

Frank Maloney (UKIP) 8,776 (7.68%)

Janet Noble (Respect) 4,930 (4.31%)

Simi Lawanson (CPA) 3,655 (3.20%)

Navindh Baburam (Ind) 608 (0.53%)

Lab Maj 5,475 (4.79%)

5.28% swing Lab to LD/Electorate 373,293/Turnout 114,332 (30.63%)

Merton & Wandsworth

C hold

Elizabeth Howlett (C) 48,295 (38.83%)

Kathryn Smith (Lab) 31,417 (25.26%)

Andy Martin (LD) 17,864 (14.36%)

Roy Vickery (Green) 10,163 (8.17%)

Adrian Roberts (UKIP) 8,327 (6.69%)

Ruairidh Maclean (Respect) 4,291 (3.45%)

Ellen Greco (CPA) 2,782 (2.24%)

Rathy Alagaratnam (Ind) 1,240 (1.00%)

C Maj 16,878 (13.57%)

1.17% swing Lab to C/Electorate 340,792/Turnout 124,379 (36.50%)

North East

Lab hold

Jennette Arnold (Lab) 37,380 (29.05%)

Terry Stacy (LD) 24,042 (18.69%)

Andrew Boff (C) 23,264 (18.08%)

Jon Nott (Green) 16,739 (13.01%)

Robert Selby (UKIP) 11,459 (8.91%)

Dean Ryan (Respect) 11,184 (8.69%)

Andrew Otchie (CPA) 3,219 (2.50%)

James Beavis (Comm Brit) 1,378 (1.07%)

Lab Maj 13,338 (10.37%)

2.30% swing Lab to LD/Electorate 410,719/Turnout 128,665 (31.33%)

South West

C hold

Tony Arbour (C) 48,858 (33.01%)

Dee Doocey (LD) 44,791 (30.26%)

Seema Malhotra (Lab) 25,225 (17.04%)

Alan Hindle (UKIP) 12,477 (8.43%)

Judy Maciejowska (Green) 9,866 (6.67%)

Omar Waraich (Respect) 3,785 (2.56%)

Peter Flower (CPA) 3,008 (2.03%)

C Maj 4,067 (2.75%)

1.22% swing C to LD/Electorate 384,450/Turnout 148,010 (38.50%)

West Central

C hold

Angie Bray (C) 51,884 (44.69%)

Ansuya Sodha (Lab) 21,940 (18.90%)

Francesco Fruzza (LD) 17,478 (15.05%)

Julia Stephenson (Green) 10,762 (9.27%)

Damian Hockney (UKIP) 7,219 (6.22%)

Kevin Cobham (Respect) 4,825 (4.16%)

Jillian McLachlan (CPA) 1,993 (1.72%)

C Maj 29,944 (25.79%)

4.32% swing Lab to C/Electorate 352,653/Turnout 116,101 (32.92%)

Top-ups

Electorate 5,197,647 (Turnout 36.04%)

Elected Ms Nicky Gavron (Lab) Murad Qureshi (Lab) Ms Lynne Featherstone (LD)
Graham Tope (LD) Baroness Sally Hamwee (LD) Mike Tuffrey (LD) Ms Dee Doocey (LD)
Ms Jenny Jones (Green) Darren Johnson (Green) Damian Hockney (UKIP) Peter
Hulme-Cross (UKIP)

C 533,696 (28.49%)

Lab 468,247 (25.00%)

LD 316,218 (16.88%)

Green 160,445 (8.57%)

UKIP 156,780 (8.37%)

BNP 90,365 (4.82%)

Respect 87,533 (4.67%)

CPA 54,914 (2.93%)

ADC 4,968 (0.27%)

C maj 65,449 (3.49%)

2.40% swing Lab to C

2000 Lab 502,874 (30.30 %), C 481,053 (28.99 %), LD 245,555 (14.80 %), Green
183,910 (11.08 %), CPA 55,192 (3.33 %), BNP 47,670 (2.87 %), UKIP 34,054 (2.05
%), London Soc 27,073 (1.63 %), Ind T 22,862 (1.38 %), Tube 17,401 (1.05 %), Soc
Lab 13,690 (0.82 %), Pro-motor 13,248 (0.80 %), NLP 7,559 (0.46 %), Comm Brit
7,489 (0.45 %)


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 12, 2004

Elections 2004: Results at a glance

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2803 words


Barnsley

Lab No change

LD down 1/Ind up 11/Lab down 13

New council Ind 22/LD 3/Lab 33/C 5

Bolton*

NOC No change

Lab down 7/LD up 7

New council C 19/Lab 20/LD 21

Bradford*

NOC No change

Ind down 1/BNP up 4/Green up 1/LD up 1/Lab down 8/C up 3

New council LD 15/Lab 29/C 38/BNP 4/Green 4

Bury*

Lab No change

LD up 1/C up 3/Lab down 1

New council C 19/Lab 27/LD 5

Calderdale*

NOC No change

Ind up 2/Lab down 1/LD down 1/C down 3

New council LD 15/C 21/BNP 3/Ind 3/Lab 9

Coventry*

NOC No change

Ind down 2/Soc Alt down 1/LD up 1/Lab down 2/C up 4

New council Soc Alt 2/Lab 22/C 27/LD 3

Doncaster*

* Lab lose to NOC

C up 2/LD up 5/Ind up 11/Lab down 18

New council LD 13/Ind 14/Lab 27/C 9

Dudley*

* C gain from NOC

BNP down 1/Ind down 1/LD down 3/Lab down 4/C up 9

New council Lab 25/C 40/LD 7

Gateshead*

Lab No change

LD up 3/Lab down 3

New council Lib 1/LD 22/Lab 43

Kirklees*

NOC No change

Lib down 1/Ind up 1/Lab down 4/C up 6/LD down 5

New council BNP 1/Ind 1/Lab 17/C 22/LD 25/Green 3

Knowsley*

Lab No change

Lab down 3

New council LD 11/Lab 52

Leeds*

* Lab lose to NOC

Ind up 4/C up 2/LD up 6/Lab down 12

New council C 24/LD 26/Green 3/Lab 40/Ind 6

Liverpool*

LD No change

Ind down 3/Lab down 3/LD down 3

New council Lab 27/Lib 3/LD 60

Manchester*

Lab No change

LD up 11/Lab down 14

New council Green 1/LD 39/Lab 56

Newcastle-upon-Tyne*

* LD gain from Lab

Lab down 24/LD up 24

New council Lab 30/LD 48

Oldham*

Lab No change

LD up 1/Lab down 1

New council Ind 1/C 2/LD 25/Lab 32

Rochdale*

NOC No change

C up 3/Lab down 6/LD up 3

New council C 11/Lab 24/LD 25

Rotherham

Lab No change

C gain 3/Lab lose 6

New council Ind 3/Lab 53/C 7

Salford*

Lab No change

Ind down 1/C up 5/LD up 3/Lab down 7

New council Lab 44/C 8/LD 8

Sandwell*

Lab No change

BNP down 1/C up 4/Lab down 3

New council BNP 1/C 13/Lab 52/LD 6

Sefton*

NOC No change

Ind down 3/C up 1/Lab down 3/LD up 5

New council C 19/Lab 20/LD 27

Sheffield*

Lab No change

Ind down 1/Green up 1/C up 1/LD up 1/Lab down 5

New council Green 1/C 2/LD 37/Lab 44

Solihull*

C No change

Ind up 1/Lab down 5/LD up 5/C down 1

New council Ind 1/LD 15/C 27/Lab 8

St Helens*

* Lab lose to NOC

LD up 3/Lab down 9

New council LD 18/Lab 24/C 6

Stockport*

LD No change

Ind down 1/C up 2/Lab down 2/LD up 1

New council C 10/Lab 14/LD 35/Ind 4

Sunderland*

Lab No change

Lib down 1/C up 3/Lab down 2

New council C 12/LD 2/Lab 61

Tameside*

Lab No change

LD up 1/C up 1/Lab down 2

New council Ind 2/LD 3/Lab 45/C 7

Trafford*

* C gain from NOC

LD down 1/Lab down 11/C up 12

New council Lab 20/LD 3/C 40

North Tyneside*

NOC No change

Ind down 2/LD down 1/Lab down 3/C up 6

New council Lab 26/C 27/LD 7

South Tyneside*

Lab No change

C up 2/LD down 1/Ind up 7/Lab down 14

New council Ind 12/C 3/Lab 35/LD 4

Wakefield*

Lab No change

Ind up 3/C up 4/Lab down 7

New council C 11/LD 3/Lab 43/Ind 6

Wigan*

Lab No change

C up 4/LD up 4/Ind up 13/Lab down 18

New council Ind 18/Lab 42/C 7/LD 8

Wirral*

NOC No change

Ind down 1/LD up 3/C down 2

New council LD 19/C 21/Lab 26

Wolverhampton*

Lab No change

LD down 3/C down 5/Lab up 8

New council C 16/LD 3/Lab 41

Non Metro

Adur*

C No change

LD up 1/Lab down 6/Ind down 2/C down 3

New council LD 1/Ind 2/Lab 2/C 24

Amber Valley

C No change

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council Lab 21/C 24

Barrow-in-Furness

Lab No change

Ind lose 1/C lose 2/Lab gain 3

New council C 12/Ind 2/Lab 24

Basildon

C No change

Ind lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 14/C 25/LD 3

Basingstoke & Deane

NOC No change

Lab lose 3/LD gain 1/C gain 2

New council Lab 12/LD 16/C 28/Ind 4

Bassetlaw

* Lab lose to NOC

Lab lose 7/Ind gain 3/C gain 4

New council LD 1/Lab 18/C 24/Ind 5

Bedford

NOC No change

Ind lose 3/C lose 1/LD gain 1/Lab gain 3

New council Ind 10/LD 13/Lab 15/C 16

South Bedfordshire

C No change

Lab lose 2/LD lose 1/C gain 3

New council LD 12/C 34/Lab 4

Brentwood

* C gain from NOC

LD lose 5/C gain 5

New council LD 13/C 21/Lab 3

Broadland*

C No change

Lab down 3/Ind down 2/LD down 1/C up 4

New council LD 11/C 31/Ind 5

Broxbourne

C No change

New council BNP 1/Ind 1/Lab 2/C 34

Burnley

* Lab lose to NOC

Ind lose 1/C gain 1/LD gain 2/Lab lose 2

New council LD 11/Lab 21/Ind 3/C 4/BNP 6

Cambridge*

LD No change

C down 1/Lab down 1/LD up 2

New council C 1/Lab 13/LD 28

South Cambridgeshire*

NOC No change

UKIP down 1/Lab down 2/Ind up 2/LD up 3

New council Ind 13/LD 19/Lab 2/C 23

Cannock Chase

NOC No change

Ind lose 1/C gain 1/Lab lose 2/LD gain 2

New council C 10/LD 14/Lab 17

Carlisle

NOC No change

LD gain 2/C lose 4/Lab gain 2

New council Ind 1/C 20/Lab 24/LD 7

Castle Point

C No change

Lab lose 1/R gain 5/C lose 4

New council Ind 1/C 35/R 5

Cheltenham

* LD lose to NOC

Ind gain 1/LD lose 3/C gain 2

New council C 15/LD 18/Lab 2/Ind 5

Cherwell

C No change

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 10/C 36/LD 4

Chester

NOC No change

Lab lose 3/C gain 2/LD gain 1

New council Ind 1/Lab 17/C 20/LD 22

Chorley

NOC No change

LD lose 1/C gain 2/Lab lose 1

New council C 20/Lab 21/Ind 3/LD 3

Colchester

NOC No change

Ind lose 3/Lab gain 1/LD lose 2/C gain 4

New council LD 23/C 28/Ind 3/Lab 6

Congleton

C No change

Ind lose 2/LD gain 2

New council LD 14/Lab 2/C 25/Ind 7

Craven

NOC No change

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council Ind 11/C 13/LD 6

Crawley*

Lab No change

C up 8/Lab down 3

New council C 16/Lab 19/LD 2

Crewe & Nantwich

NOC No change

Ind lose 2/LD gain 1/C gain 1

New council C 22/Lab 22/Ind 6/LD 6

Daventry

C No change

LD gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council LD 1/Lab 3/C 34

Eastbourne

* C gain from LD

C gain 1/LD lose 1

New council LD 13/C 14

Eastleigh

LD No change

Lab lose 1/C lose 1/LD gain 2

New council Lab 3/LD 32/C 9

Ellesmere Port & Neston

Lab No change

C gain 2/Lab lose 2

New council C 12/LD 2/Lab 29

Elmbridge

R No change

New council C 21/R 31/LD 8

Epping Forest

NOC No change

Lab lose 4/Ind lose 1/BNP gain 3/R gain 3/C lose 1

New council LD 15/C 23/BNP 3/Ind 4/Lab 4/R 9

Exeter

NOC No change

C lose 1/LD gain 2/Lab lose 1

New council LD 12/Lab 19/Lib 4/C 5

Fareham

C No change

Ind lose 1/LD lose 3/C gain 4

New council C 22/LD 9

Gloucester

NOC No change

Lab lose 3/C gain 2/LD gain 1

New council LD 12/C 16/Lab 8

Gosport

NOC No change

Ind lose 1/LD lose 2/Lab lose 1/C gain 4

New council Lab 11/C 15/Ind 2/LD 6

Great Yarmouth*

C No change

Lab down 9

New council Lab 13/C 26

Harlow

NOC No change

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/Lab gain 2

New council Lab 11/C 13/LD 9

Harrogate

C No change

New council LD 21/C 29/Ind 4

Hart

C No change

Ind lose 1/R gain 2/LD gain 1/C lose 2

New council LD 12/C 18/R 2/Ind 3

Hastings

* Lab lose to NOC

LD gain 3/Lab lose 6/C gain 3

New council C 13/Lab 15/LD 4

Havant

C No change

Lab lose 2/LD lose 2/C gain 4

New council C 27/LD 5/Lab 6

North Hertfordshire

C No change

LD gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 1

New council Lab 14/C 28/LD 7

Hertsmere

C No change

Lab lose 1/LD gain 1

New council C 25/LD 7/Lab 7

Huntingdonshire*

C No change

Ind down 1/LD down 3/C up 3

New council LD 10/Ind 2/C 40

Hyndburn

C No change

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 15/C 20

Ipswich

* Lab lose to NOC

LD gain 2/Lab lose 8/C gain 6

New council C 18/Lab 23/LD 7

South Lakeland

NOC No change

Lab lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council Ind 2/C 20/LD 22/Lab 8

West Lancashire

C No change

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 25/C 29

Lincoln

Lab No change

LD gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 1

New council LD 1/Lab 25/C 7

West Lindsey

* C gain from NOC

Ind lose 2/C gain 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 16/C 19/Ind 2

Macclesfield

C No change

Ind gain 1/LD lose 1

New council LD 14/Ind 2/R 3/C 35/Lab 6

Maidstone

NOC No change

Lab lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council LD 20/C 23/Ind 3/Lab 9

Mole Valley

NOC No change

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 1/LD gain 1/C gain 1

New council LD 17/C 19/Ind 5

Newcastle-under-Lyme

* Lab gain from NOC

LD lose 4/C gain 2/Lab gain 2

New council Ind 1/C 14/LD 14/Lab 31

Norwich*

* LD lose to NOC

Ind down 1/Green up 3/Lab up 1/LD down 12

New council C 1/Lab 15/LD 18/Green 5

Nuneaton & Bedworth

Lab No change

LD gain 1/C gain 3/Lab lose 4

New council LD 1/C 11/Lab 22

Oxford

* Lab lose to NOC

Ind gain 2/Green gain 4/Lab lose 9/LD gain 3

New council LD 18/Lab 20/Ind 3/Green 7

West Oxfordshire

C No change

Lab lose 1/LD gain 1

New council Lab 1/LD 13/C 29/Ind 6

Pendle

* LD gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 5/LD gain 6

New council C 11/LD 30/Lab 8

Penwith*

NOC No change

Meb Ker down 1/Lab down 1/Ind down 2/C up 2/LD up 3

New council Lab 1/C 12/LD 14/Ind 8

Preston

NOC No change

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council Soc All 1/LD 10/C 18/Lab 24/Ind 4

Purbeck

C No change

New council C 13/Ind 3/LD 8

Redditch*

* Lab gain from NOC

LD down 2/C down 4/Lab up 6

New council C 10/Lab 16/LD 3

Reigate & Banstead

C No change

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 1/LD lose 2/C gain 4

New council Lab 3/C 37/LD 5/R 6

Rochford

C No change

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council Ind 1/Lab 1/R 1/C 32/LD 4

Rossendale

* C gain from NOC

Lab lose 8/C gain 8

New council Ind 1/LD 1/C 25/Lab 9

Rugby

NOC No change

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 3

New council LD 10/Lab 14/C 21/Ind 3

Runnymede

C No change

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 3/C 33/Ind 6

Rushmoor

C No change

Lab lose 1/LD gain 2/C lose 1

New council Ind 1/LD 12/C 24/Lab 5

Shrewsbury & Atcham

C No change

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council Vacant 1/Lab 10/C 20/Ind 3/LD 6

St Albans

NOC No change

Lab lose 2/C lose 3/LD gain 5

New council Ind 1/Lab 11/C 17/LD 29

Stevenage

Lab No change

LD gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council C 3/Lab 32/LD 4

Stratford-on-Avon

C No change

Lab lose 1/LD lose 2/C gain 3

New council LD 20/Ind 3/C 30

Stroud

C No change

New council Lab 11/C 27/Ind 3/Green 4/LD 6

Swale

C No change

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council LD 10/Lab 11/C 26

Tamworth

* C gain from Lab

Lab lose 5/C gain 5

New council Ind 1/Lab 13/C 16

Tandridge

C No change

Lab lose 1/LD gain 1

New council Ind 1/LD 11/Lab 2/C 28

Three Rivers

LD No change

C lose 2/LD gain 2

New council C 12/LD 29/Lab 7

Tunbridge Wells

C No change

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 1/LD 12/C 35

Watford

LD No change

Lab lose 4/C lose 3/Green gain 1/LD gain 6

New council Green 2/LD 26/C 4/Lab 4

Waveney

NOC No change

Ind gain 1/Lab lose 3/C gain 2

New council Lab 14/C 24/LD 3/Ind 7

Welwyn Hatfield

C No change

LD gain 2/Lab lose 5/C gain 3

New council Lab 15/LD 2/C 31

Weymouth & Portland*

NOC No change

C up 2/Lab down 4/LD up 3

New council LD 14/Ind 5/C 8/Lab 9

Winchester

* LD lose to NOC

Lab lose 1/C gain 4/LD lose 3

New council C 22/LD 26/Lab 4/Ind 5

Woking

NOC No change

Lab lose 2/Ind lose 1/LD gain 3

New council LD 15/C 17/Lab 4

Worcester*

C No change

LD up 1/Ind down 1/C down 1

New council Lab 10/C 18/LD 3/Ind 4

Worthing*

* C gain from NOC

LD down 7/C up 8

New council LD 11/C 26

Wyre Forest*

NOC No change

Ind down 1/Ind KHHC down 8/Lib up 1/C up 8

New council Ind 1/C 19/LD 2/Lab 4/Ind KHHC 8/Lib 8

Unitary

Blackburn with Darwen*

Lab No change

Ind down 2/LD up 4/C up 2/Lab down 2

New council LD 12/C 17/Vacant 2/Lab 33

Derby

NOC No change

Ind lose 1/UKIP gain 1/C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council UKIP 1/Vacant 1/C 11/LD 14/Lab 24

Halton*

Lab No change

C up 5/LD up 7/Lab down 12

New council LD 14/Lab 35/C 7

Hartlepool*

* Lab gain from NOC

C down 2/LD down 2/Lab up 4

New council Lab 25/C 4/Ind 9/LD 9

Kingston-upon-Hull

NOC No change

Ind lose 3/UKIP gain 1/LD gain 2

New council UKIP 1/C 2/LD 24/Lab 27/Ind 5

North East Lincolnshire

NOC No change

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council C 15/LD 16/Ind 4/Lab 7

Milton Keynes

LD No change

New council Ind 1/Lab 16/LD 27/C 7

Peterborough*

* C gain from NOC

Lib up 1/Lab down 10/C up 9

New council C 33/LD 4/Lib 4/Lab 7/Ind 9

Plymouth

Lab No change

C gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council Ind 1/C 19/LD 2/Lab 35

Portsmouth

NOC No change

Lab lose 4/LD gain 4

New council C 15/LD 20/Lab 7

Reading*

Lab No change

LD down 1/C up 2

New council Lab 35/LD 5/C 6

Slough*

* Lab lose to NOC

R up 3/Ind up 1/LD up 5/C up 2/Lab down 11

New council Lab 15/Lib 3/R 3/Ind 6/LD 6/C 8

Southampton

NOC No change

C gain 2/Lab lose 2

New council C 14/Lab 15/LD 19

Southend-on-Sea

C No change

Ind gain 1/Lab lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council Ind 2/C 33/LD 7/Lab 9

Stoke-on-Trent

* Lab gain from NOC

LD lose 1/Ind lose 5/Lab gain 6

New council Vacant 1/Ind 13/BNP 2/Lab 34/ C 5/LD 5

Swindon

* C gain from NOC

LD lose 1/Lab lose 3/C gain 4

New council Lab 19/C 33/LD 7

Thurrock*

* C gain from Lab

BNP down 1/LD down 1/Ind down 2/Lab down 14/C up 18

New council Lab 19/Ind 2/C 28

Warrington*

Lab No change

Ind down 2/C up 2/LD up 5/Lab down 8

New council LD 21/Lab 30/C 6

Wokingham*

C No change

Lab down 1/LD down 5/C up 6

New council LD 15/C 39

Wales

Blaenau Gwent

Lab No change

R lose 3/LD lose 1/Ind gain 5/Lab lose 1

New council LD 3/Lab 31/Ind 8

Bridgend

* Lab lose to NOC

C gain 7/Ind gain 4/LD gain 6/Lab lose 17

New council PC 1/Vacant 1/Ind 10/LD 13/Lab 21/C 8

Caerphilly

* Lab gain from PC

LD lose 1/Ind gain 2/PC lose 12/Lab gain 11

New council PC 26/Lab 39/Ind 8

Cardiff

* Lab lose to NOC

Ind lose 2/PC gain 1/C gain 7/Lab lose 21/LD gain 15

New council C 12/Lab 27/PC 3/LD 33

Carmarthenshire

NOC No change

LD lose 1/C gain 1/Lab lose 3/Ind gain 3

New council C 1/PC 16/Lab 25/Ind 32

Ceredigion*

* Ind lose to NOC

LD up 1/Ind down 7/PC up 4

New council Lab 1/Ind 16/PC 16/LD 9

Conwy

NOC No change

LD lose 7/PC gain 3/C gain 7/Lab lose 7/Ind gain 4

New council Vacant 1/C 12/Lab 12/Ind 19/LD 6/PC 9

Denbighshire

* Ind lose to NOC

LD gain 1/PC lose 2/C gain 5/Lab lose 3/Ind lose 1

New council LD 2/Ind 23/C 7/PC 7/Lab 8

Flintshire

Lab No change

Green lose 1/PC lose 1/C gain 3/LD gain 3/Ind gain 1/Lab lose 5

New council PC 1/LD 10/Ind 18/Lab 37/C 4

Gwynedd*

PC No change

LD up 1/Lab down 2/Ind down 5/PC down 2

New council Lab 10/Ind 17/PC 41/LD 7

Isle of Anglesey

Ind No change

Lab gain 1/LD gain 1/C gain 1/PC gain 1/Ind lose 4

New council LD 1/Lab 1/C 2/Ind 28/PC 8

Merthyr Tydfil

* Lab gain from NOC

PC lose 3/Ind gain 2/Lab gain 1

New council Ind 16/Lab 17

Monmouthshire*

* C gain from NOC

PC up 2/LD up 2/Ind up 2/Lab down 11/C up 6

New council PC 2/C 24/LD 4/Ind 5/Lab 8

Neath Port Talbot

Lab No change

R gain 4/Lab lose 4

New council PC 10/LD 2/Lab 36/Ind 7/R 9

Newport*

Lab No change

Ind down 1/LD up 5/C up 5/Lab down 6

New council Ind 1/PC 1/C 11/Lab 31/LD 6

Pembrokeshire

Ind No change

LD lose 2/PC gain 3/Lab lose 3/Ind gain 2

New council Lab 12/LD 3/Ind 40/PC 5

Powys

Ind No change

Lab lose 2/LD gain 6/Ind lose 4

New council LD 16/Lab 4/Ind 53

Rhondda, Cynon, Taff

* Lab gain from PC

LD lose 2/Ind lose 4/PC lose 25/Lab gain 31

New council PC 13/LD 2/Ind 3/Lab 57

Swansea

* Lab lose to NOC

PC gain 2/Ind gain 3/LD gain 8/Lab lose 13

New council Ind 12/LD 19/Lab 32/C 4/PC 5

Torfaen*

Lab No change

Ind up 5/Lab down 5

New council C 1/LD 2/Lab 34/Ind 7

Vale of Glamorgan*

NOC No change

LD down 1/Ind up 3/PC up 2/Lab down 2/C down 2

New council Lab 16/C 20/Ind 3/PC 8

Wrexham

NOC No change

C lose 1/LD gain 2/Lab lose 4/Ind gain 3

New council LD 10/Lab 19/Ind 20/C 3

Michael Howard with Tory councillors and supporters outside Trafford town hall
Photograph: Phil Noble



LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              68 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: THE VERDICT;
 THESE EX-LABOUR COUNCILLORS ARE AMONG 460 WHO LOST THEIR SEATS IN

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 344 words


DENNIS MIDDLEMASS

HALTON BC

DEPUTY MAYOR

Sat for 12 years, lost by 500 votes

"Tony Blair should listen to the people. Iraq was a big part of this. It's a
slap in the face and has nothing to do with local policies."

ROBERT HOWARTH

BOLTON MBC

COUNCIL LEADER

Sat for 24 years, lost by 900 votes

"Unfortunately in a democratic country, people will never vote for war. Iraq
wasn't the sole reason but it has played a part."

STEPHEN HELLIER

WIGAN

Councillor since 1995, lost by 51 votes

"The war has absolutely, been a major factor: Tony Blair lost it. He'd have been
better spending time getting me re-elected rather than George Bush."

JOHN GARFORTH

TAMWORTH

Councillor since 2002, lost by 125 votes

"After the war, the chaos that has followed has had quite a backlash on the
doorstep. We didn't think it was a major factor until last night."

RORY QUINN

NORWICH

Sat for 35 years, lost by 494 votes

"Iraq was certainly an issue. Many Labour supporters either didn't vote or voted
for other parties because of that."

JOHN WISEMAN

ST HELENS

Councillor since 2003, lost by 65 votes

"Iraq was a major issue, no question about it but there were a number of things.
Where's your list?"

MOHAMMED ABASSI

OXFORD

Councillor since 2002, lost by 120 votes

"Students voted against Labour policies in education as well as being against us
on Iraq. Residents seemed to see Iraq as the main problem."

JULIE SKINNER

MAIDSTONE

Sat since 1995, lost by 164 votes

"The Iraq issue turned people against us but the decisive element was
nationalism. Without the UKIP, I would have won."

ANTHONY BERROW

BRIDGEND

Sat for five years, lost by 70 votes

"Iraq was obviously one of the problems - the Conservative who got in hasn't
even visited the estate he got voted in for."

ARTHUR KITSON

HASTINGS

Sat for two years, lost by 140 votes

"People appreciated what we have done locally. But they said that to vote for
you is to endorse the Blair and his war in Iraq."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              69 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: BLAIR IN DEEP TROUBLE AS PRESCOTT SAYS LABOUR GOT KICKING' OVER
WAR IN IRAQ

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 1047 words


TONY BLAIR'S leadership was under renewed pressure last night after Labour
slumped to a disastrous third place behind the Tories and Liberal Democrats in
the local authority elections.

After Labour lost more than 450 council seats and control of 13 authorities in
Thursday's elections, John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, admitted the
party had received " a kicking" and David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said he
was "mortified". They both blamed a backlash over Iraq.

Clare Short, who resigned as a cabinet minister after the Iraq war, renewed her
demand for Mr Blair to stand down. She said: "I think that the electorate is
sending a message to Tony Blair because the Labour Party seems incapable of
correcting him. What we did in Iraq has brought disgrace and dishonour on
Britain around the world. As Tony Blair won't change the policy, the only way to
make a correction is for him to step aside from the leadership."

Writing in The Independent today, Robin Cook says Mr Blair must promise there
"will be no more Iraqs" if he wants to lead Labour into the general election.
Ominously, he adds: "The real problem is that in his heart Tony Blair remains
convinced that he was right and that he should be ready to do it again. So long
as that remains the case, many of the voters who have deserted Labour will not
return." The former foreign secretary describes the council results as "awful",
saying that "the Iraq debacle has carpetbombed Labour's reputation".

Noting that the Prime Minister did not appear in Labour's election broadcasts,
he says: "We cannot fight a general election by keeping the Prime Minister out
of the campaign."

Christine McCafferty, Labour MP for Calder Valley, said: "If the Prime Minister
were to hold his hands up and say I got it wrong' and perhaps apologise, then
maybe people would be willing to trust again. But if he doesn't do that, then I
think many voters will think it is time to have a new leader."

Nick Brown, the former Labour chief whip and a close ally of Gordon Brown, said
voters in Newcastle upon Tyne, where Labour lost power for the first time in 30
years, had cited problems with "senior figures in the Government". He said he
would discuss with colleagues what Labour should do this weekend, adding: "We
have to listen to what people are saying."

But the Chancellor rallied behind Mr Blair in television interviews last night,
predicting he would lead Labour to a third general election victory. "We fight
as a team," he said. Mr Brown said the decision to go to war was backed by the
Cabinet. On the elections, he said: "We must listen learn and reflect, and one
of the lessons I have already learnt is that we must work even harder as a
government."

The toll of Labour losses continued as votes were counted yesterday, and the
mood of Labour MPs blackened. But senior Labour figures predicted Mr Blair would
survive another "wobble" over his leadership without being plunged into a
full-scale crisis. One backbencher summed up the mood as: "A lot of people want
him to go but we are not going to knife him." A BBC projection, based on 400,000
votes cast in key council wards, showed that the Tories won 38 per cent of the
votes, the Liberal Democrats 29 per cent and Labour 26 per cent. It is believed
to have been the first time the governing party has come third in the local
elections.

The Labour losses also included Leeds, Thurrock, Burnley, Bassetlaw, St Helens,
Oxford and Ipswich as the Tories gained 270 more council seats and the Liberal
Democrats more than 110. Michael Howard, the Tory leader, said the results gave
his party an ideal platform for the general election. "We have to be 11.5 points
ahead to win the general election. On last night's results, we were 12 points
ahead," he said.

Charles Kennedy hailed the Liberal Democrats' "dramatic advance", saying: "The
general election is going to be much more a three-party contest. With us having
challenged and seen off the Conservatives, we are now taking the fight to Labour
in their heartlands in the North."

But Labour officials denied the party had suffered a "meltdown" and claimed that
the Tories had not done well enough to show they were on course to win the
general election expected next May. They said they had retained power in areas
such as Birmingham, Wolverhampton and Bury because Muslim voters stayed loyal
rather than let the Tories in.

Labour hopes that a strong showing by the anti-EU United Kingdom Independence
Party (UKIP) will give Mr Howard a bloody nose when the European election
results are announced tomorrow night.

For some Labour officials, the council results were at the lower end of their
expectations. One said: "A lot of people have taken the opportunity to register
a protest vote over Iraq. Some opposed the war all along, some felt they were
misled over Iraq's weapons and others were upset that Iraq has displaced other
activity by the Prime Minister and the Government." Labour's preliminary
analysis, based on feedback from its grassroots activists, suggested that the
"anti-war" vote swelled markedly just before the election campaign, when the
allegations of abuse of Iraqi prisoners by Britain and the United States were in
the headlines.

The mistreatment allegations were a "tipping point" for many people who had
until then given Mr Blair the benefit of the doubt over the war. This week's
United Nations resolution on Iraq's future came too late to change their minds.

Mr Prescott said Iraq was a crucial factor, but insisted the general election
would be fought on the battleground of public services on which people liked
Labour's policies. "But they didn't judge this election on that. Iraq was a
cloud, or indeed a shadow, over these elections. I am not saying we haven't had
a kicking. It's not a great day for Labour," he said.

Mr Blunkett said the Iraq issue had split families, friends and the Labour
Party. "We can't blame the electorate. "We have got to look at ourselves. I
think we have actually got to ask ourselves questions about how we are seen, how
we are heard, how we speak to people."

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, insisted: "The Prime Minister's position is
very secure and very well recognised around the country."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              70 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: BLAIR SAYS SORRY AS PRESCOTT ADMITS LABOUR GOT A KICKING' FOR
IRAQ WAR

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND COLIN BROWN

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1021 words


TONY BLAIR'S leadership was under renewed pressure last night after Labour
slumped to a disastrous third place behind the Tories and Liberal Democrats in
the local authority elections.

The Prime Minister apologised to the 548 councillors who lost their seats.
Although 84 Labour candidates picked up seats, the party lost control of 13
authorities in Thursday's elections, a result widely blamed on the war in Iraq.
But Mr Blair urged his party to "hold our nerve" after the drubbing in the polls
and made it clear he did not believe it would affect his plans for the general
election next year, or lead to a challenge for his leadership. Asked whether he
was still the best person to lead Labour into the general election, Mr Blair
said: "It makes me want to see through what we have begun."

The Prime Minister admitted his decision to go to war in Iraq had cost Labour
seats across the country. "I understand why people worry about the basis on
which we went to war," he said. "Yes, Iraq has been an immensely difficult
decision." He added: "I would like to say how sorry I am to the councillors who
have lost their seats."

Speaking at the British Embassy in Washington, after Ronald Reagan's funeral, Mr
Blair said: "The Liberal Democrats have fought a campaign basically around Iraq.
Iraq has been a shadow over our support. We have to understand these decisions
arise in Government."

Mr Blair will face a difficult meeting with Labour backbenchers on Monday but he
said: "The fact that the Government loses council elections does not really
augur much for the general election. I think there are lessons we have got to
learn. What has really happened is the Conservative Party have not really broken
through."

John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, admitted the party had received "a
kicking" and David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said he was "mortified". They
both blamed a backlash over Iraq.

Clare Short, who resigned as a cabinet minister after the Iraq war, renewed her
demand for Mr Blair to stand down. She said: "I think that the electorate is
sending a message to Tony Blair because the Labour Party seems incapable of
correcting him. What we did in Iraq has brought disgrace and dishonour on
Britain around the world. As Tony Blair won't change the policy, the only way to
make a correction is for him to step aside from the leadership."

Writing in The Independent today, Robin Cook says Mr Blair must promise there
"will be no more Iraqs" if he wants to lead Labour into the general election.
Ominously, he adds: "The real problem is that in his heart Tony Blair remains
convinced that he was right and that he should be ready to do it again. So long
as that remains the case, many of the voters who have deserted Labour will not
return."

Noting that the Prime Minister did not appear in Labour's election broadcasts,
he says: "We cannot fight a general election by keeping the Prime Minister out
of the campaign." Christine McCafferty, Labour MP for Calder Valley, said: "If
the Prime Minister were to hold his hands up and say I got it wrong' and perhaps
apologise, then maybe people would be willing to trust again. But if he doesn't
do that, then I think many voters will think it is time to have a new leader."

Nick Brown, the former Labour chief whip and a close ally of Gordon Brown, said
voters in Newcastle upon Tyne, where Labour lost power for the first time in 30
years, had cited problems with "senior figures in the Government". He said he
would discuss with colleagues what Labour should do this weekend, adding: "We
have to listen to what people are saying."

But the Chancellor rallied behind Mr Blair in television interviews, predicting
he would lead Labour to a third general election victory. "We fight as a team,"
he said. Mr Brown said the decision to go to war was backed by the Cabinet. On
the elections, he said: "We must listen, learn and reflect, and one of the
lessons I have already learnt is that we must work even harder as a government."

Senior Labour figures said Mr Blair would survive another "wobble" over his
leadership without being plunged into a full-scale crisis. One backbencher
summed up the mood as: "A lot of people want him to go but we are not going to
knife him."

A BBC projection, based on 400,000 votes cast in key council wards, showed that
the Tories won 38 per cent of the votes, the Liberal Democrats 29 per cent and
Labour 26 per cent. It is believed to have been the first time the governing
party has come third in the local elections.

The Labour losses also included Leeds, Thurrock, Burnley, Bassetlaw, St Helens,
Oxford and Ipswich as the Tories gained 263 more council seats and the Liberal
Democrats more than 132.

Michael Howard, the Tory leader, said the results gave his party an ideal
platform for the general election. "We have to be 11.5 points ahead to win the
general election. On last night's results, we were 12 points ahead," he said.

Charles Kennedy hailed the Liberal Democrats' "dramatic advance", saying: "The
general election is going to be much more a three-party contest. With us having
challenged and seen off the Conservatives, we are now taking the fight to Labour
in their heartlands in the North."

But Labour officials claimed that the Tories had not done well enough to show
they were on course to win the general election expected in May. Labour hopes
that a strong showing by the United Kingdom Independence Party will give Mr
Howard a bloody nose when the European election results are announced tomorrow
night.

For some Labour officials, the council results were at the lower end of their
expectations. One said: "A lot of people have taken the opportunity to register
a protest vote over Iraq."

w There are two results still to come:

Birmingham, a key authority, will not have its full results until Sunday after
an unusual decision to abandon vote-counting in Perry Barr, the final ward.

Walsall - result still pending from one ward because an uncounted ballot box was
discovered under a table almost an hour after the result was announced.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              71 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: SLUMP HITS LIVINGSTONE HARD AS FRINGE PARTIES ADVANCE IN LONDON

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND NIGEL MORRIS Norris: Tories took nine out of fourteen
seats; Livingstone: Suffered from rise of small parties

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 497 words


LABOUR'S SUPPORT in the capital collapsed last night as fringe parties picked up
a quarter of the votes cast in the London Assembly elections.

Labour and the Tories won only 56 per cent of the votes between them as the
United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) and the anti-war alliance Respect
advanced. Labour won only a quarter of the votes and suffered a high-profile
casualty when Lord (Toby) Harris, leader of the Labour group on the assembly,
lost his constituency seat of Brent and Harrow to the Tories by 4,686 votes.

Lord Harris, who chairs the Metropolitan Police Authority, said: "It has been a
tide against us." Brent and Harrow was the only one of the 14 constituencies in
the capital to change hands as minor parties piled up support at the expense of
their mainstream rivals.

Labour was hoping that Ken Livingstone would be re-elected as mayor after a
closely fought contest with the Tory candidate, Steve Norris. Even if Mr
Livingstone holds on, he may find his wings clipped by the assembly, which
monitors the work of the mayor and can amend his budget with a two-thirds
majority.

The results in the assembly were a big setback to Tony Blair because the capital
is a key general election battleground with 74 parliamentary seats - now split
between 54 Labour MPs, 13 Tories and seven Liberal Democrats.

The Tories, who won nine seats, took 31.2 per cent of the vote (down 2 points),
while Labour, with five seats, slumped by 6.9 points to 24.7 per cent. Liberal
Democrat support fell by half a point to 18.5 and the Greens' vote was down by
2.6 points to 7.7.

UKIP, which supports withdrawal from the European Union, picked up more than 10
per cent of the votes in the capital while the hard-Left Respect coalition,
which opposed the Iraq war, won 4.6 per cent.

Labour suffered a scare in Enfield and Haringey, where Joanne McCartney clung on
by only 1,575 votes with less than 30 per cent of the vote. She owed her
survival to a divided opposition including strong performances by the Liberal
Democrats and UKIP.

The anti-EU party came third in two seats in the capital: in Bexley and Bromley,
where Heather Bennett won 16.8 per cent of the vote, forcing Labour into fourth
place, and Havering and Redbridge, where Lawrence Webb won 14.2 per cent.

Oliur Rahman, the Respect candidate, defied the fledgling organisation's
expectations, coming third with almost 20,000 votes in City and East.

The mayoral race was too close to call last night. Mr Livingstone's poll ratings
fell after he rejoined Labour earlier this year, and one survey this week showed
him just two points ahead of Mr Norris after second preferences were taken into
account. In the first election for mayor four years ago he stood as an
independent.

The differential between Mr Livingstone's personal vote and Labour's showing in
the assembly will be seen as a reflection of his opposition to the Iraq war and
Mr Blair's unpopularity in the capital.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              72 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: ...BUT LIVINGSTONE BUCKS TREND TO WIN RE-ELECTION

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND NIGEL MORRIS Ken Livingstone after he was returned as
London Mayor

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 733 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE won re-election as Mayor of London last night when he saw off a
challenge by the Tory candidate Steve Norris to win a second four-year term.

Mr Livingstone won a total of 828,380 votes (55 per cent) when first and second
preferences were taken into account, to 667,178 for Mr Norris (45 per cent). The
result was closer than in the first Mayoral contest four years ago, when Mr
Livingstone won 58 per cent and Mr Norris 42 per cent.

Although Mr Livingstone's decision to rejoin the Labour Party may have harmed
his prospects, Tony Blair will be hugely relieved at the London result, which
gave him a welcome respite on a black day for Labour.

Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat candidate, came a distant third whereas there
was a strong showing by the anti-EU United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP),
which came fourth. The anti-war coalition Respect finished ahead of the British
National Party and the Green Party.

Mr Livingstone, who won as an independent four years ago, said Mr Norris had
posed "more of a threat than I would have liked". He said the Government could
learn from the campaign he fought on public services. "Tony Blair can win a
third term but we have got to get across to people what we are doing with
hospitals and education."

Mr Norris said he had achieved an "extremely creditable result" that showed the
Tories were a force in London. Praising his Labour opponent, he said: "I have to
say I admire somebody who, whether you like it or not, sticks to his principles.
I am sorry I lost, but if I had to lose, I am proud that I lost to Ken
Livingstone."

Mr Livingstone won 685,541 first preference votes and Mr Norris 542,423. The
second preferences of people who voted for the other eight candidates were
redistributed to give the tally for Labour and the Tories.

Labour's celebrations were tempered by a collapse in its support in the
elections to the London Assembly, where it won only a quarter of the votes.

Fringe parties picked up a quarter of the votes amid advances by UKIP - which
won two seats - and Respect. Labour and the Tories won 56 per cent of the votes
between them.

Labour suffered a high-profile casualty when Lord Toby Harris, the leader of the
Labour group on the assembly, lost his constituency seat of Brent & Harrow to
the Tories by a majority of 4,686. "It has been a tide against us," he said.

The assembly results were a setback to Mr Blair because the capital is a key
general election battleground with 74 Parliamentary seats. The differential
between Mr Livingstone's personal vote and Labour's showing in the assembly
elections will be seen as a reflection of his opposition to the Iraq war and the
Government's unpopularity in the capital.

The new make-up of the assembly is: Tories nine seats (unchanged); Labour seven
(down two ); Liberal Democrats five (up one); UKIP two (up two) Greens two (down
one).

Mr Livingstone may find his wings clipped by the assembly, which monitors the
work of the Mayor. The 25-strong assembly can amend the Mayor's budget if two
thirds of the members agree to such a proposal.

The Tories, who won nine seats, won 31.2 per cent of the votes (down 2 points),
whereas Labour, with five seats, slumped by 6.9 points to 24.7 per cent. Liberal
Democrat support fell by half a point to 18.5 per cent and the Greens' vote was
down by 2.6 points to 7.7 per cent. UKIP picked up more than 10 per cent and
Respect gained 4.6 per cent.

Brent & Harrow was the only one of the 14 assembly constituencies in the capital
to change hands as minor parties piled up support at the expense of their
mainstream rivals. In a blow to the Tories, their leader Eric Ollerenshaw lost
his seat under the proportional representation system.

THE LONDON MAYOR

First preferences: KEN LIVINGSTONE (Lab) 685,541 36.7% STEVE NORRIS (Con)
542,423 29.0% Simon Hughes (Lib Dem) 284,645 15.2% Frank Maloney (UKIP) 115,665
6.2% Ms Lindsey German (Respect) 67,731 3.6% Julian Leppert (BNP) 58,405 3.1%
Darren Johnson (Green) 57,331 3.1% Ram Gidoomal (CPA) 41,696 2.2% Ms Lorna Reid
(Ind Work) 9,542 0.5% Dr Tammy Nagalingam (ND) 6,692 0.4%

After redistribution of second preferences: KEN LIVINGSTONE 828,380 55.4% Steve
Norris 667,178 44.6%

THE LONDON ASSEMBLY

Seats Change Labour 7 -2 Conservative 9 = Liberal Democrat 5 +1 Green 2 -1 UKIP
2 +2

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              73 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: THE CONSERVATIVES: LAUNCH PAD' NO GUARANTEE OF GENERAL ELECTION
WIN

BYLINE: BEN RUSSELL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Michael Howard outside Trafford Town
Hall, greeting the good results across the country Phil Noble/PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 511 words


CONSERVATIVES CELEBRATED significant gains in the local elections yesterday,
saying that they had built a "launch pad" for victory at the general election.

Michael Howard, the party leader, hailed the results after the party gained 11
councils and more than 220 seats,but the party chairman Dr Liam Fox admitted it
would be "absurd" to claim the poll guaranteed general election success.

The party was, however, braced for a potentially difficult time tomorrow night,
when the European election results are announced - with the UK Independence
Party expected to make a strong showing.

Senior officials said the party had made gains at the expense of both Labour and
the Liberal Democrats and that the Government now faced a "pincer movement"
similar to the two-pronged attack that helped sweep Labour to power in 1997.

Estimates put Conservative support at 38 per cent, 12 points ahead of Labour,
giving what the Tories said was their best showing since the 1992 local
elections. Tory gains included taking Thurrock from Labour, winning Brentwood
from no overall control and gaining Trafford, a crucial urban council of the
type the party must win.

Rossendale, Horsham, Eastbourne, Worthing and Swindon all also fell to the
Conservatives. In Wales, the party secured control of Monmouthshire, which has
not been Conservative-controlled since its creation.

Elsewhere, Conservative gains denied the Liberal Democrats of overall control at
Cheltenham and Winchester.

Speaking outside Trafford Town Hall, Mr Howard said: "When I became leader, I
said we would become a party for all Britons and all Britain. After last night,
that is now the case. Britain is a great country, but we could be doing so much
better."

Dr Fox, the co-chairman, said "I don't for a minute say that the result today
would guarantee the Conservatives winning a general election, that would be
absurd ... but it's good progress."

The Tory Central Office said: "These elections were supposed to be a staging
post and we have made pretty good gains and are well on the road to winning the
next election. There's a year to go and we have a lot of policies to unveil in
the meantime."

The spokesman rejected suggestions that the party had done no better than under
William Hague in 2000, arguing that the 12 per cent lead over Labour was double
that of 2000 and the biggest since 1992.

The party is, however, under intense pressure over Europe. Michael Heseltine,
the former deputy prime minister, signalled potential trouble ahead in an
interview yesterday. He told GMTV there was a "steam-roller" pushing the
Conservatives towards euroscepticism. European governments would not permit the
Conservatives to renegotiate Britain's membership of the EU, he said, urging Mr
Howard to resist the pressure.

"Trying to get selected as a Tory candidate today, if you have anything to do
with the traditions of the Conservative party in Europe over the last 50 years,
it's very difficult. Michael's trying to balance it but the momentum is there,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              74 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: ANALYSIS: TORY LEADER CAN CELEBRATE BUT NOT WITH THE BEST
CHAMPAGNE

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 525 words


YESTERDAY WAS an Asti Spumante, rather than a champagne, day for Michael Howard.
The local election results show that the Conservative Party has made solid and
steady progress in a number of crucial councils.

Its national share of the vote - 38 per cent, compared with Labour's 26 per cent
- entitles the Tories to spin a good story. This is the first time that the
governing party has been reduced to third place in mid-term council elections.
Not even at the height of John Major's unpopularity did the Tories come third.

And some of the Tory council gains - in Trafford, Dudley, Worcester, Monmouth,
Rossendale and Thurrock - are significant because they are in parliamentary
constituencies that they must win back from Labour at the general election.
Elsewhere, in Worthing, Eastbourne and Cheltenham, they reversed previous
Liberal Democrat gains at their expense.

The results were at the upper end of Tory expectations and Mr Howard has
described the outcome as excellent. So he has passed the initial electoral test
in his first rendezvous with the voters, but it would be premature for his wife,
Sandra, to start measuring up for new Downing Street curtains.

Thursday's elections were the first for many years when genuinely solid
foundations were laid for a possible Tory general election victory, but fell
short of "stunning". Labour performed disastrously - especially in its heartland
areas of the North-east, but it was the Liberal Democrats, rather than the
Tories, who made the running in Newcastle.

Herein lies the Tories' long-term problem. While the Newcastle result was a rout
for Labour, not a single Tory councillor was elected. Similarly, in Manchester,
Liverpool and Oxford, where there were once Tory MPs, there are still no Tory
councillors.

In the 1970s, when Labour was previously in power and suffering similar
unpopularity, there was a straight transfer of support from Labour to Margaret
Thatcher's resurgent Tories. On this occasion the Tories have had to share -
almost evenly - the spoils of victory with the Liberal Democrats. On a rough
rule of thumb, for every two council seats that Labour has lost, one each has
gone to the other two parties. This means that the Tories now have to operate in
a three-party system that blunts the extent to which they can repeat the truly
stunning gains they made in the run-up to the 1979 election.

So at half time this weekend there will be quiet satisfaction in the Tory camp.
Tomorrow night we will get the full-time score, which will probably confirm
Labour's overall bad result. The Tories will clearly suffer because of the wild
card of the United Kingdom Independence Party, but provided their Europhiles and
Eurosceptics are disciplined enough to refrain from over-reaction, they may
still be able to use these council elections to spin a good yarn.

Overall, however, the current bias in the electoral system still gives Labour
advantages. Assuming some Labour recovery, should the main parties end up, on
the eve of a general election, in percentage terms in the mid- 30s, Labour can
still win with a solid overall working majority.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              75 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: THE SMALLER PARTIES: THE UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 107 words


UKIP was celebrating a sharp rise in support expected to translate tomorrow into
a flood of seats in the European Parliament. The anti-European Union party made
modest gains in the council elections, gaining their first councillors in Derby
and Hull and missing out in Hartlepool by just one vote. The party now has more
than 40 councillors, several of whom have defected from other parties, in
authorities including Walsall, North Devon and North Shropshire. In many areas,
it won 15 per cent or more of the vote. The share in the London Assembly
elections was lower, with UKIP performing best in Bexley and Bromley, with16.8%.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              76 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: THE SMALLER PARTIES: THE UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 125 words


UKIP was celebrating a sharp rise in support expected to translate tomorrow into
a flood of seats in the European Parliament. The anti-European Union party made
modest gains in the council elections, gaining their first councillors in Derby
and Hull and missing out in Hartlepool by just one vote. The party now has more
than 40 councillors, several of whom have defected from other parties, in
authorities including Walsall, North Devon and North Shropshire. In many areas,
it won 15 per cent or more of the vote. The share in the London Assembly
elections was lower, with the best performance best in Bexley and Bromley, with
16.8 per cent. It won more than 10 per cent of votes in London, picking up two
seats on the London Assembly.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              77 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: THE LIBERAL DEMOCRATS: BRITAIN NOW HAS THREE-PARTY POLITICAL
SYSTEM, SAYS LEADER

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Charles Kennedy and Lord
Rennard, bask in the victories the Liberal Democrats secured PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 467 words


CHARLES KENNEDY warned yesterday that the "the tide is going out for Labour"
after historic inroads were made into Tony Blair's urban heartlands,
drivingLabour into third place.

The Liberal Democrats annihilated Labour in Newcastle, a socialist stronghold
held by Labour for 30 years. Capitalising on unease about the Iraq war, the
Liberal Democrats also gained in Cardiff, Swansea and Liverpool, pushing Labour
into third place overall.

Lord Rennard, the party's campaigns and strategy chief, said winning control of
Newcastle was spectacular and had exceeded expectations. "What matters for us is
momentum," he said. "This puts us in good stead to win extra parliamentary
seats. Moving up is what we always want to do." The party gained more than 144
council seats but lost two councils.

The party also made surprise losses in their own strongholds, including
Cheltenham, whose MP is Nigel Jones, and Winchester, the seat of Mark Oaten, the
party's Home Affairs spokesman. It also lost Eastbourne council to the Tories
and control in Norwich to Labour.

The party did not increase its overall level of support from last time, gaining
29 per cent of the vote. In May 2003, when the party made historic gains in the
local authority elections, they had 30 per cent of the vote.

But in these local elections the party targeted carefully to win more seats at
the general election. It won all the council seats in the Cardiff Central
parliamentary constituency.

Mr Kennedy said his party was being seen as "a breath of fresh air", and
acknowledged that Iraq had been a central issue. He said the party's result
showed the "tide is going out for Labour" and "three-party politics" was now a
reality in Britain.

The result is a personal vindication for the leader, who had faced sharp
criticism from Labour over his stance on Iraq. "We have stuck to our principles
and argued our case and I think we have won new respect and new-found support as
a result," Mr Kennedy said.

A spokes-woman added that the party were now the only party to "straddle the
country" with the ability to beat both Labour and Tories throughout Britain.

During the campaign, Mr Kennedy covered 7,000 miles visiting target areas,
mostly by train. Yesterday, he was in Newcastle to congratulate party workers
and said the result had "changed the face of politics" in Britain. But the
Liberal Democrats are expected to do less well in the Euro and London elections,
with Simon Hughes in third place in the Mayoral race.

But their share of the vote in London did hit its highest level since the days
of the SDP/Liberal Alliance in 1983. Mr Kennedy said the party's share of the
vote would be lower in the Euro elections because they are competing with
several of small ones, including the UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              78 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: ANALYSIS: LIBERAL DEMOCRATS SENSED AN OPEN GOAL BUT HIT THE
CROSSBAR

BYLINE: SEAN O'GRADY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 595 words


"LIBERAL DEMOCRATS celebrate gains as Labour suffers severe setback" is the
title of the "analysis" e-mailed to me at 6.20am yesterday morning by the
party's chief executive and elections guru Lord (Chris) Rennard. That may have
been taking "political activism" too far, but it was a characteristically clever
piece of spin; Labour has indeed suffered a severe setback but there is no
balancing adjective to describe the Liberal Democrats' gains.

The word that is missing is "modest". Of course, gains of council seats in three
figures are pleasing. The projected Lib Dem national vote share too looks quite
respectable - 30 per cent, the same as the party scored last year and up on the
previous two years by a couple of points. The fact that almost one in three
voters is prepared to back the party, albeit in the special circumstances of the
local elections, is an achievement. Local strength can convert into
parliamentary success, although it is a haphazard, inconsistent and glacially
slow process. One day, the turnaround in a former Labour stronghold such as
Newcastle may result in a Liberal Democrat MP in the city. Labour, like the
Tories before them, disdain local politics at their peril.

All that is for the distant future. The immediate prospect is a general election
in which the Liberal Democrats are challenged in their own strongholds in the
South.

The plain and deeply uncomfortable fact for Cowley Street is that, while the Lib
Dems have been holding their own nationally and making gains in the North,
whichever way you cut it, a Conservative projected vote share of 38 per cent,
their best for years, represents a swing from the Liberal Democrats to the
Tories. That means trouble for Liberal Democrat incumbent MPs and wannabe MPs.
The low-hanging fruits that once looked ready to drop into their laps under the
ineffective Tory leadership of Iain Duncan Smith are moving out of reach.

And while the Lib Dems can take some comfort from the way the intervention of
the UKIP will likely damage the Conservatives in the European elections, the
UKIP is capable of taking votes from the Lib Dems as well, as that party uses
populism and exploits the appeal of a protest vote, ironically, in just the way
the Lib Dems once did. Europe is not that popular a cause in Devon, Cornwall and
Somerset.

The abiding emotion Liberal Democrats should feel is not disappointment about
how badly they and their leader have done, for they have not. Charles Kennedy's
health seems OK and the gains were real. It is rather a sense of a wasted
opportunity. Here is a country with an unpopular Labour government and with a
Tory Party that, while vilified, is far from distrusted on the issue of public
services.

An election is fought under a system of proportional representation. It is, in
other words, an open goal for the Liberal Democrats and they've hit the
crossbar.

When Lord Rennard and his chums recover from their celebrations they should ask
themselves whether it was really sensible to make the European elections a
"referendum" on Tony Blair's policy in Iraq. They will need to wonder why the
historic breakthrough of at least a second position in the London mayoral
contest was squandered and why Simon Hughes campaign never took off.

Next stop for Mr Kennedy's caravan is the Leicester South by-election, a seat
that, despite looking unpromising on paper, they could certainly win. But they
will need to have some more inspired campaigning if they want to repeat the
famous victory they enjoyed in Brent East in London.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              79 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: LOCAL AUTHORITIES IN ENGLAND AND WALES (WITH EIGHT AUTHORITIES
STILL TO DECLARE)

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1887 words


METROPOLITAN AUTHORITIES

BARNSLEY

Boundary Change

Ind, 22; LD, 3; Lab, 33; C, 5

Lab, No change.

BOLTON

Boundary Change

C, 19; Lab, 20; LD, 21

NOC No change.

BRADFORD

Boundary Change

LD, 15; Lab, 29; C, 38; BNP, 4; Green, 4

NOC No change.

BURY

Boundary Change

C, 19; Lab, 27; LD, 5

Lab, No change.

CALDERDALE

Boundary Change

LD, 15; C, 21; BNP, 3; Ind, 3; Lab, 9

NOC No change.

COVENTRY

Boundary Change

Soc Alt, 2; Lab, 22; C, 27; LD, 3

NOC No change.

DONCASTER

Boundary Change

LD, 13; Ind, 14; Lab, 27; C, 9

Lab, lose to NOC.

DUDLEY

Boundary Change

Lab, 25; C, 40; LD, 7

C, gain from NOC.

GATESHEAD

Boundary Change

Lib, 1; LD, 22; Lab, 43

Lab, No change.

KIRKLEES

Boundary Change

BNP, 1; Ind, 1; Lab, 17; C, 22; LD, 25; Green, 3

NOC No change.

KNOWSLEY

Boundary Change

LD, 11; Lab, 52

Lab, No change.

LEEDS

Boundary Change

C, 24; LD, 26; Green, 3; Lab, 40; Ind, 6

Lab, lose to NOC.

LIVERPOOL

Boundary Change

Lab, 27; Lib, 3; LD, 60

LD, No change.

MANCHESTER

Boundary Change

Green, 1; LD, 39; Lab, 56

Lab, No change.

NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE

Boundary Change

Lab, 30; LD, 48

LD, control new council.

OLDHAM

Boundary Change

Ind, 1; C, 2; LD, 25; Lab, 32

Lab, No change.

ROCHDALE

Boundary Change

C, 11; Lab, 24; LD, 25

NOC No change.

ROTHERHAM

Ind, 3; Lab, 53; C, 7

Lab, No change.

SALFORD

Boundary Change

Lab, 44; C, 8; LD, 8

Lab, No change.

SANDWELL

Boundary Change

BNP, 1; C, 13; Lab, 52; LD, 6

Lab, No change.

SEFTON

Boundary Change

C, 19; Lab, 20; LD, 27

NOC No change.

SHEFFIELD

Boundary Change

Green, 1; C, 2; LD, 37; Lab, 44

Lab, No change.

SOLIHULL

Boundary Change

Ind, 1; LD, 15; C, 27; Lab, 8

C, No change.

ST HELENS

Boundary Change

LD, 18; Lab, 24; C, 6

Lab, lose to NOC.

STOCKPORT

Boundary Change

C, 10; Lab, 14; LD, 35; Ind, 4

LD, No change.

SUNDERLAND

Boundary Change

C, 12; LD, 2; Lab, 61

Lab, No change.

TAMESIDE

Boundary Change

Ind, 2; LD, 3; Lab, 45; C, 7

Lab, No change.

TRAFFORD

Boundary Change

Lab, 20; LD, 3; C, 40

C, gain from NOC.

NORTH TYNESIDE

Boundary Change

Lab, 26; C, 27; LD, 7

NOC No change.

SOUTH TYNESIDE

Boundary Change

Ind, 12; C, 3; Lab, 35; LD, 4

Lab, No change.

WAKEFIELD

Boundary Change

C, 11; LD, 3; Lab, 43; Ind, 6

Lab, No change.

WIGAN

Boundary Change

Ind, 18; Lab, 42; C, 7; LD, 8

Lab, No change.

WIRRAL

Boundary Change

LD, 19; C, 21; Lab, 26

NOC No change.

WOLVERHAMPTON

Boundary Change

C, 16; LD, 3; Lab, 41

Lab, No change.

NON-METROPOLITAN AUTHORITIES

ADUR

Boundary Change

LD, 1; Ind, 2; Lab, 2; C, 24

C, No change.

AMBER VALLEY

Lab, 21; C, 24

C, No change.

BARROW-IN-FURNESS

C, 12; Ind, 2; Lab, 24

Lab, No change.

BASILDON

Lab, 14; C, 25; LD, 3

C, No change.

BASINGSTOKE & DEANE

Lab, 12; LD, 16; C, 28; Ind, 4

NOC No change.

BASSETLAW

LD, 1; Lab, 18; C, 24; Ind, 5

Lab, lose to NOC.

BEDFORD

Ind, 10; LD, 13; Lab, 15; C, 16

NOC No change.

SOUTH BEDFORDSHIRE

LD, 12; C, 34; Lab, 4

C, No change.

BRENTWOOD

LD, 13; C, 21; Lab, 3

C, gain from NOC.

BROADLAND

Boundary Change

LD, 11; C, 31; Ind, 5

C, No change.

BROXBOURNE

BNP, 1; Ind, 1; Lab, 2; C, 34

C, No change.

BURNLEY

LD, 11; Lab, 21; Ind, 3; C, 4; BNP, 6

Lab, lose to NOC.

CAMBRIDGE

Boundary Change

C, 1; Lab, 13; LD, 28

LD, No change.

SOUTH CAMBRIDGESHIRE

Boundary Change

Ind, 13; LD, 19; Lab, 2; C, 23

NOC No change.

CANNOCK CHASE

C, 10; LD, 14; Lab, 17

NOC No change.

CARLISLE

Ind, 1; C, 20; Lab, 24; LD, 7

NOC No change.

CASTLE POINT

Ind, 1; C, 35; R, 5

C, No change.

CHELTENHAM

C, 15; LD, 18; Lab, 2; Ind, 5

LD, lose to NOC.

CHESTER

Ind, 1; Lab, 17; C, 20; LD, 22

NOC No change.

CHORLEY

C, 20; Lab, 21; Ind, 3; LD, 3

NOC No change.

COLCHESTER

LD, 23; C, 28; Ind, 3; Lab, 6

NOC No change.

CONGLETON

LD, 14; Lab, 2; C, 25; Ind, 7

C, No change.

CRAVEN

Ind, 11; C, 13; LD, 6

NOC No change.

CRAWLEY

Boundary Change

C, 16; Lab, 19; LD, 2

Lab, No change.

CREWE & NANTWICH

C, 22; Lab, 22; Ind, 6; LD, 6

NOC No change.

DAVENTRY

LD, 1; Lab, 3; C, 34

C, No change.

EASTBOURNE

LD, 13; C, 14

C, control new council.

EASTLEIGH

Lab, 3; LD, 32; C, 9

LD, No change.

ELLESMERE PORT & NESTON

C, 12; LD, 2; Lab, 29

Lab, No change.

ELMBRIDGE

C, 21; R, 31; LD, 8

R, No change.

EPPING FOREST

LD, 15; C, 23; BNP, 3; Ind, 4; Lab, 4; R, 9

NOC No change.

EXETER

LD, 12; Lab, 19; Lib, 4; C, 5

NOC No change.

FAREHAM

C, 22; LD, 9

C, No change.

GLOUCESTER

LD, 12; C, 16; Lab, 8

NOC No change.

GOSPORT

Lab, 11; C, 15; Ind, 2; LD, 6

NOC No change.

GREAT YARMOUTH

Boundary Change

Lab, 13; C, 26

C, No change.

HARLOW

Lab, 11; C, 13; LD, 9

NOC No change.

HARROGATE

LD, 21; C, 29; Ind, 4

C, No change.

HART

LD, 12; C, 18; R, 2; Ind, 3

C, No change.

HASTINGS

C, 13; Lab, 15; LD, 4

Lab, lose to NOC.

HAVANT

C, 27; LD, 5; Lab, 6

C, No change.

NORTH HERTFORDSHIRE

Lab, 14; C, 28; LD, 7

C, No change.

HERTSMERE

C, 25; LD, 7; Lab, 7

C, No change.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE

Boundary Change

LD, 10; Ind, 2; C, 40

C, No change.

HYNDBURN

Lab, 15; C, 20

C, No change.

IPSWICH

C, 18; Lab, 23; LD, 7

Lab, lose to NOC.

SOUTH LAKELAND

Ind, 2; C, 20; LD, 22; Lab, 8

NOC No change.

WEST LANCASHIRE

Lab, 25; C, 29

C, No change.

LINCOLN

LD, 1; Lab, 25; C, 7

Lab, No change.

WEST LINDSEY

LD, 16; C, 19; Ind, 2

C, gain from NOC.

MACCLESFIELD

LD, 14; Ind, 2; R, 3; C, 35; Lab, 6

C, No change.

MAIDSTONE

LD, 20; C, 23; Ind, 3; Lab, 9

NOC No change.

MOLE VALLEY

LD, 17; C, 19; Ind, 5

NOC No change.

NEWCASTLE-UNDER-LYME

Ind, 1; C, 14; LD, 14; Lab, 31

Lab, gain from NOC.

NORWICH

Boundary Change

C, 1; Lab, 15; LD, 18; Green, 5

LD, lose to NOC.

NUNEATON & BEDWORTH

LD, 1; C, 11; Lab, 22

Lab, No change.

OXFORD

LD, 18; Lab, 20; Ind, 3; Green, 7

Lab, lose to NOC.

WEST OXFORDSHIRE

Lab, 1; LD, 13; C, 29; Ind, 6

C, No change.

PENDLE

C, 11; LD, 30; Lab, 8

LD, gain from NOC.

PRESTON

Soc All, 1; LD, 10; C, 18; Lab, 24; Ind, 4

NOC No change.

PURBECK

C, 13; Ind, 3; LD, 8

C, No change.

REDDITCH

Boundary Change

C, 10; Lab, 16; LD, 3

Lab, gain from NOC.

REIGATE & BANSTEAD

Lab, 3; C, 37; LD, 5; R, 6

C, No change.

ROCHFORD

Ind, 1; Lab, 1; R, 1; C, 32; LD, 4

C, No change.

ROSSENDALE

Ind, 1; LD, 1; C, 25; Lab, 9

C, gain from NOC.

RUGBY

LD, 10; Lab, 14; C, 21; Ind, 3

NOC No change.

RUNNYMEDE

Lab, 3; C, 33; Ind, 6

C, No change.

RUSHMOOR

Ind, 1; LD, 12; C, 24; Lab, 5

C, No change.

SHREWSBURY & ATCHAM

Vacant, 1; Lab, 10; C, 20; Ind, 3; LD, 6

C, No change.

ST ALBANS

Ind, 1; Lab, 11; C, 17; LD, 29

NOC No change.

STEVENAGE

C, 3; Lab, 32; LD, 4

Lab, No change.

STRATFORD-ON-AVON

LD, 20; Ind, 3; C, 30

C, No change.

STROUD

Lab, 11; C, 27; Ind, 3; Green, 4; LD, 6

C, No change.

SWALE

LD, 10; Lab, 11; C, 26

C, No change.

TAMWORTH

Ind, 1; Lab, 13; C, 16

C, control new council.

TANDRIDGE

Ind, 1; LD, 11; Lab, 2; C, 28

C, No change.

THREE RIVERS

C, 12; LD, 29; Lab, 7

LD, No change.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS

Lab, 1; LD, 12; C, 35

C, No change.

WATFORD

Green, 2; LD, 26; C, 4; Lab, 4

LD, No change.

WAVENEY

Lab, 14; C, 24; LD, 3; Ind, 7

NOC No change.

WELWYN HATFIELD

Lab, 15; LD, 2; C, 31

C, No change.

WEYMOUTH & PORTLAND

Boundary Change

LD, 14; Ind, 5; C, 8; Lab, 9

NOC No change.

WINCHESTER

C, 22; LD, 26; Lab, 4; Ind, 5

LD, lose to NOC.

WOKING

LD, 15; C, 17; Lab, 4

NOC No change.

WORCESTER

Boundary Change

Lab, 10; C, 18; LD, 3; Ind, 4

C, No change.

WORTHING

Boundary Change

LD, 11; C, 26

C, gain from NOC.

WYRE FOREST

Boundary Change

Ind, 1; C, 19; LD, 2; Lab, 4; Ind KHHC, 8; Lib, 8

NOC No change.

UNITARY AUTHORITIES

BLACKBURN WITH DARWEN

Boundary Change

LD, 12; C, 17; Vacant, 2; Lab, 33

Lab, No change.

DERBY

UKIP, 1; Vacant, 1; C, 11; LD, 14; Lab, 24

NOC No change.

HALTON

Boundary Change

LD, 14; Lab, 35; C, 7

Lab, No change.

HARTLEPOOL

Boundary Change

Lab, 25; C, 4; Ind, 9; LD, 9

Lab, gain from NOC.

KINGSTON-UPON-HULL

UKIP, 1; C, 2; LD, 24; Lab, 27; Ind, 5

NOC No change.

NORTH EAST LINCOLNSHIRE

C, 15; LD, 16; Ind, 4; Lab, 7

NOC No change.

MILTON KEYNES

Ind, 1; Lab, 16; LD, 27; C, 7

LD, No change.

PETERBOROUGH

Boundary Change

C, 33; LD, 4; Lib, 4; Lab, 7; Ind, 9

C, gain from NOC.

PLYMOUTH

Ind, 1; C, 19; LD, 2; Lab, 35

Lab, No change.

PORTSMOUTH

C, 15; LD, 20; Lab, 7

NOC No change.

READING

Boundary Change

Lab, 35; LD, 5; C, 6

Lab, No change.

SLOUGH

Boundary Change

Lab, 15; Lib, 3; R, 3; Ind, 6; LD, 6; C, 8

Lab, lose to NOC.

SOUTHAMPTON

C, 14; Lab, 15; LD, 19

NOC No change.

SOUTHEND-ON-SEA

Ind, 2; C, 33; LD, 7; Lab, 9

C, No change.

STOKE-ON-TRENT

Vacant, 1; Ind, 13; BNP, 2; Lab, 34; C, 5; LD, 5

Lab, gain from NOC.

SWINDON

Lab, 19; C, 33; LD, 7

C, gain from NOC.

THURROCK

Boundary Change

Lab, 19; Ind, 2; C, 28

C, control new council.

WARRINGTON

Boundary Change

LD, 21; Lab, 30; C, 6

Lab, No change.

WOKINGHAM

Boundary Change

LD, 15; C, 39

C, No change.

WELSH AUTHORITIES

BLAENAU GWENT

LD, 3; Lab, 31; Ind, 8

Lab, No change.

BRIDGEND

PC, 1; Vacant, 1; Ind, 10; LD, 13; Lab, 21; C, 8

Lab, lose to NOC.

CARDIFF

C, 12; Lab, 27; PC, 3; LD, 33

Lab, lose to NOC.

CARMARTHENSHIRE

C, 1; PC, 16; Lab, 25; Ind, 32

NOC No change.

CEREDIGION

Boundary Change

Lab, 1; Ind, 16; PC, 16; LD, 9

Ind, lose to NOC.

CONWY

Vacant, 1; C, 12; Lab, 12; Ind, 19; LD, 6; PC, 9

NOC No change.

FLINTSHIRE

PC, 1; LD, 10; Ind, 18; Lab, 37; C, 4

Lab, No change.

GWYNEDD

Boundary Change

Lab, 10; Ind, 17; PC, 41; LD, 7

PC, No change.

ISLE OF ANGLESEY

LD, 1; Lab, 1; C, 2; Ind, 28; PC, 8

Ind, No change.

MERTHYR TYDFIL

Ind, 16; Lab, 17

Lab, gain from NOC.

MONMOUTHSHIRE

Boundary Change

PC, 2; C, 24; LD, 4; Ind, 5; Lab, 8

C, gain from NOC.

NEATH PORT TALBOT

PC, 10; LD, 2; Lab, 36; Ind, 7; R, 9

Lab, No change.

NEWPORT

Boundary Change

Ind, 1; PC, 1; C, 11; Lab, 31; LD, 6

Lab, No change.

PEMBROKESHIRE

Lab, 12; LD, 3; Ind, 40; PC, 5

Ind, No change.

POWYS

LD, 16; Lab, 4; Ind, 53

Ind, No change.

RHONDDA, CYNON, TAFF

PC, 13; LD, 2; Ind, 3; Lab, 57

Lab, control new council.

SWANSEA

Ind, 12; LD, 19; Lab, 32; C, 4; PC, 5

Lab, lose to NOC.

TORFAEN

Boundary Change

C, 1; LD, 2; Lab, 34; Ind, 7

Lab, No change.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              80 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS 2004: LONDON ASSEMBLY RESULTS (WITH RESULTS BY PROPORTIONAL
REPRESENTATION STILL TO BE DECLARED)

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1173 words


BARNET & CAMDEN

C HOLD

Electorate 371,186. Turnout 135,034 (36.38%).

*Brian Coleman (C) 47,640 (35.28%)

Lucy Anderson (Lab) 36,121 (26.75%)

Jonathan Simpson (LD) 23,603 (17.48%)

Miranda Dunn (Green) 11,921 (8.83%)

Magnus Nielsen (UKIP) 8,685 (6.43%)

Liz Wheatley (Respect) 5,150 (3.81%)

Humberto Heliotrope (CPA) 1,914 (1.42%)

C Maj 11,519 (4.05% swing Lab to C)

2000: C maj 551 (0.44%).

Turnout 126,362 (34.96%)

BEXLEY & BROMLEY

C HOLD

Electorate 397,075. Turnout 158,928 (40.02%).

*Bob Neill (C) 64,246 (40.42%)

Duncan Borrowman (LD) 29,992 (18.87%)

Heather Bennett (UKIP) 26,703 (16.80%)

Charlie Mansell (Lab) 24,848 (15.63%)

Ann Garrett (Green) 8,069 (5.08%)

Miranda Suit (CPA) 3,397 (2.14%)

Alun Morinan (Respect) 1,673 (1.05%)

C Maj 34,254 (2.02% swing C to LD)

2000: C maj 34,559 (25.15%).

Turnout 137,436 (35.26%)

BRENT & HARROW

C GAIN FROM LAB

Electorate 332,723. Turnout 117,390 (35.28%).

Bob Blackman (C) 39,900 (33.99%)

*Toby Harris (Lab) 35,214 (30.00%)

Havard Hughes (LD) 20,782 (17.70%)

Daniel Moss (UKIP) 7,199 (6.13%)

Shahrar Ali (Green) 6,975 (5.94%)

Albert Harriott (Respect) 4,586 (3.91%)

Gladstone Macaulay (CPA) 2,734 (2.33%)

C Maj 4,686 (4.24% swing Lab to C)

2000: Lab maj 4,380 (4.50%).

Turnout 97,433 (29.39%)

CITY & EAST

LAB HOLD

Electorate 437,298. Turnout 130,909 (29.94%).

*John Biggs (Lab) 38,085 (29.09%)

Shafi Choudhury (C) 23,749 (18.14%)

Oliur Rahman (Respect) 19,675 (15.03%)

Guy Burton (LD) 18,255 (13.94%)

Christopher Pratt (UKIP) 17,997 (13.75%)

Terry McGrenera (Green) 8,687 (6.64%)

Chris Gill (CPA) 4,461 (3.41%)

Lab Maj 14,336 (7.74% swing Lab to C)

2000: Lab maj 26,121 (26.44%).

Turnout 98,800 (24.69%)

CROYDON & SUTTON

C HOLD

Electorate 376,175. Turnout 135,547 (36.03%).

*Andrew Pelling (C) 52,330 (38.61%)

Steven Gauge (LD) 28,636 (21.13%)

Sean Fitzsimons (Lab) 25,861 (19.08%)

James Feisenberger (UKIP) 15,203 (11.22%)

Shasha Khan (Green) 6,175 (4.56%)

David Campanale (CPA) 4,234 (3.12%)

Waqas Hussein (Respect) 3,108 (2.29%)

C Maj 23,694 (1.27% swing LD to C)

2000: C maj 17,807 (14.93%).

Turnout 119,256 (32.69%)

EALING & HILLINGDON

C HOLD

Electorate 397,564. Turnout 139,515 (35.09%).

*Richard Barnes (C) 45,230 (32.42%)

Gurcharan Singh (Lab) 34,214 (24.52%)

Mike Cox (LD) 23,440 (16.80%)

David Malindine (UKIP) 14,698 (10.54%)

Sarah Edwards (Green) 9,395 (6.73%)

Dalawar Chaudhry (Ind) 5,285 (3.79%)

Salvinder Singh Dhillon (Respect) 4,229 (3.03%)

Genevieve Hibbs (CPA) 3,024 (2.17%)

C Maj 11,016 (1.11% swing Lab to C)

2000: C maj 6,812 (5.68%).

Turnout 119,830 (30.73%)

ENFIELD & HARINGEY

LAB HOLD

Electorate 343,617. Turnout 116,237 (33.83%).

Joanne McCartney (Lab) 33,955 (29.21%)

Peter Forrest (C) 32,380 (27.86%)

Wayne Hoban (LD) 19,720 (16.97%)

Brian Hall (UKIP) 10,652 (9.16%)

Jayne Forbes (Green) 10,310 (8.87%)

Sait Akgul (Respect) 6,855 (5.90%)

Peter Wolstenholme (CPA) 2,365 (2.03%)

Lab Maj 1,575 (0.86% swing Lab to C)

2000: Lab maj 3,302 (3.08%).

Turnout 107,048 (30.67%)

GREENWICH & LEWISHAM

LAB HOLD

Electorate 329,450. Turnout 108,771 (33.02%).

*Len Duvall (Lab) 36,251 (33.33%)

Gareth Bacon (C) 22,168 (20.38%)

Alex Feakes (LD) 19,183 (17.64%)

Timothy Reynolds (UKIP) 13,454 (12.37%)

Sue Luxton (Green) 11,271 (10.36%)

Stephen Hammond (CPA) 3,619 (3.33%)

Ian Page (Respect) 2,825 (2.60%)

Lab Maj 14,083 (3.00% swing Lab to C)

2000: Lab maj 17,985 (18.95%).

Turnout 94,897 (28.94%)

HAVERING & REDBRIDGE

C HOLD

Electorate 350,652. Turnout 129,347 (36.89%).

*Roger Evans (C) 44,723 (34.58%)

Keith Darvill (Lab) 28,017 (21.66%)

Lawrence Webb (UKIP) 18,297 (14.15%)

Matthew Lake (LD) 13,646 (10.55%)

Malvin Brown (Res London) 6,925 (5.35%)

Ashley Gunstock (Green) 6,009 (4.65%)

Abdurahman Jafar (Respect) 5,185 (4.01%)

Juliet Hawkins (CPA) 2,917 (2.26%)

David Stephens (Th Way) 2,031 (1.57%)

Peter Thorogood (Ind) 1,597 (1.23%)

C Maj 16,706 (2.66% swing Lab to C)

2000: C maj 8,269 (7.59%).

Turnout 108,975 (30.81%)

LAMBETH & SOUTHWARK

LAB HOLD

Electorate 373,293. Turnout 114,332 (30.63%).

*Valerie Shawcross (Lab) 36,280 (31.73%)

Caroline Pidgeon (LD) 30,805 (26.94%)

Bernard Gentry (C) 17,378 (15.20%)

Shane Collins (Green) 11,900 (10.41%)

Frank Maloney (UKIP) 8,776 (7.68%)

Janet Noble (Respect) 4,930 (4.31%)

Simi Lawanson (CPA) 3,655 (3.20%)

Navindh Baburam (Ind) 608 (0.53%)

Lab Maj 5,475 (5.28% swing Lab to LD)

2000: Lab maj 15,493 (15.34%).

Turnout 100,985 (28.98%)

MERTON & WANDSWORTH

C HOLD

Electorate 340,792. Turnout 124,379 (36.50%).

*Elizabeth Howlett (C) 48,295 (38.83%)

Kathryn Smith (Lab) 31,417 (25.26%)

Andy Martin (LD) 17,864 (14.36%)

Roy Vickery (Green) 10,163 (8.17%)

Adrian Roberts (UKIP) 8,327 (6.69%)

Ruairidh Maclean (Respect) 4,291 (3.45%)

Ellen Greco (CPA) 2,782 (2.24%)

Rathy Alagaratnam (Ind) 1,240 (1.00%)

C Maj 16,878 (1.17% swing Lab to C)

2000: C maj 12,870 (11.23%).

Turnout 114,615 (34.10%)

NORTH EAST

LAB HOLD

Electorate 410,719. Turnout 128,665 (31.33%).

Jennette Arnold (Lab) 37,380 (29.05%)

Terry Stacy (LD) 24,042 (18.69%)

Andrew Boff (C) 23,264 (18.08%)

Jon Nott (Green) 16,739 (13.01%)

Robert Selby (UKIP) 11,459 (8.91%)

Dean Ryan (Respect) 11,184 (8.69%)

Andrew Otchie (CPA) 3,219 (2.50%)

James Beavis (Comm Brit) 1,378 (1.07%)

Lab Maj 13,338 (2.30% swing Lab to LD)

2000: Lab maj 17,603 (14.97%).

Turnout 117,586 (28.74%)

SOUTH WEST

C HOLD

Electorate 384,450. Turnout 148,010 (38.50%).

*Tony Arbour (C) 48,858 (33.01%)

Dee Doocey (LD) 44,791 (30.26%)

Seema Malhotra (Lab) 25,225 (17.04%)

Alan Hindle (UKIP) 12,477 (8.43%)

Judy Maciejowska (Green) 9,866 (6.67%)

Omar Waraich (Respect) 3,785 (2.56%)

Peter Flower (CPA) 3,008 (2.03%)

C Maj 4,067 (1.22% swing C to LD)

2000: C maj 7,059 (5.18%).

Turnout 136,247 (35.33%)

WEST CENTRAL

C HOLD

Electorate 352,653. Turnout 116,101 (32.92%).

Angie Bray (C) 51,884 (44.69%)

Ansuya Sodha (Lab) 21,940 (18.90%)

Francesco Fruzza (LD) 17,478 (15.05%)

Julia Stephenson (Green) 10,762 (9.27%)

Damian Hockney (UKIP) 7,219 (6.22%)

Kevin Cobham (Respect) 4,825 (4.16%)

Jillian McLachlan (CPA) 1,993 (1.72%)

C Maj 29,944 (4.32% swing Lab to C)

2000: C maj 18,279 (17.15%).

Turnout 106,600 (30.84%)

KEY TO PARTY ABBREVIATIONS

C Conservative

Lab Labour

LD Liberal Democrat

PC Plaid Cymru

Green Green Party

BNP British National Party

Ind Independent and Others

Ind KHHC Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern

R Ratepayers or Residents

Lib Liberal

Meb Ker Mebyon Kernow

Soc All Socialist Alliance

Soc Alt Socialist Alternative

UKIP United Kingdom Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              81 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ELECTIONS: ANALYSIS: CHILL WIND FROM HURRICANE HOWARD GIVES LABOUR A SEVERE
ATTACK OF MID-TERM BLUES

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE Peter Arnold, the new leader of Newcastle City Council,
celebrates with Liberal Democrat supporters after the party ended 30 years of
Labour rule Tom Buist

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1480 words


TEFLON TONY has finally lost his coating. But whether he is in danger of being
swept from power by Hurricane Howard is still far from clear. These were the key
messages from the local ballot boxes when they were opened yesterday.

Never before has Labour done so badly in local elections.

The BBC estimated that its performance would be worth no more than 26 per cent
of the vote if it were to be replicated across the country as a whole, four
points down on its performance last year, and three points lower than its
previous worst performance, recorded in 2000. It trailed the Liberal Democrats
for the first time in local elections.

True, local elections have long been a poor hunting ground for Labour. Even
during Mr Blair's long honeymoon with the electorate after he won power in 1997,
the party never succeeded in translating its double-digit opinion poll leads
into votes in the local ballot box.

Voters who are willing to support the party for Westminster have displayed a
persistent reluctance to trust the party with the running of their local town
hall.

If there were to be a general election tomorrow, then Thursday's performance
probably signals that Labour would be winning about a third of the vote, rather
than just little more than a quarter.

But a third of the vote is far from being sufficient to guarantee a general
election victory. And the results certainly confirm the message of recent
opinion polls that Labour is suffering a serious dose of the mid-term blues. To
date there has seemingly been a tendency to discount the message from the polls;
now many a Labour MP has seen it translated into a miserable reality in their
own backyard. These results serve them with a clear warning that they would be
unwise to persist with the assumption that they are bound to win a third term
come what may.

Moreover, disillusion with New Labour continues to be greatest in the party's
traditional heartlands. On average its vote fell far more heavily in wards it
was defending than it did elsewhere. Thus, Labour's vote typically fell by 11
points compared with 2002 in wards it won two years ago, but by just three
points elsewhere.

It was the Liberal Democrats rather than the Conservatives who did most of the
damage, typified by their successes in capturing control of Newcastle. Mr Blair
must hope that having taken the opportunity to express their discontent, these
voters will be willing to return to the fold in a general election next year.
For if they do not, then Labour might suddenly find that the electoral system
was no longer as kind to it as it was in 1997 or 2001.

But if Labour is unpopular, it appears the Conservatives have still to persuade
many voters that they represent a desirable alternative. True, with 38 per cent
of the projected national vote Michael Howard has recorded a clear advance on
his party's local election performance over the previous two years - in stark
contrast to what happened under Iain Duncan Smith's leadership last year. The
result will probably be enough to insulate him against any criticism should the
results of the European Parliament ballot on Sunday prove more disappointing.
But even so the party has still not done any better than it did in the 2000
local elections, even though the Government is evidently far more unpopular than
it was four years ago. And of course the Conservatives' performance in 2000 was
followed just 12 months later by bitter defeat for William Hague. Indeed the
party failed to make significant net gains of seats in those councils where the
seats up for grabs this year were last contested four years ago.

Perhaps, though, the most telling indication of the modesty of the
Conservatives' performance is to compare it with what Labour achieved when the
then Conservative government did as badly in the local polls as Labour did on
Thursday. Then Labour regularly secured 40 per cent or more of the vote. That
target still remains an elusive one for the Tories.

Indeed, the Conservatives' failure to develop sufficient positive appeal of
their own is underlined by the results of a poll conducted by ICM for the BBC's
local election night programme. Despite a decline in Mr Blair's own personal
ratings over the past 12 months, nearly twice as many people still reckon that
Labour has a good team of leaders as grant that accolade to the Conservatives.

Moreover on the crucial issue of who voters trust to run the economy, Labour
still retains a 15-point lead over the Conservatives.

An unpopular Government and an unappealing Opposition presents of course a
potentially opportune climate for the Liberal Democrats. And with a projected
share of 29 per cent, their performance was at least as good as any previous
local performance the party has recorded. The party often profited from Labour
misfortune, as in Newcastle, but sometimes found itself losing ground when
facing a challenge from the Conservatives - as typified by the party's loss of
control in both Eastbourne and Cheltenham. That latter pattern must be
considered a warning that the party could yet face some tough battles in trying
to retain its many parliamentary seats where the Conservatives are breathing
down its neck. Meanwhile the party still has to demonstrate that it can
translate its local advances in traditional Labour territory into winning
parliamentary seats in a general election.

But the Liberal Democrats were far from being the only party to profit from the
electorate's apparent lack of enthusiasm for either the Conservatives or Labour.
Both UKIP and the Greens made a notable advance. In winning an average share of
the vote of 14 per cent in those seats in which it stood, UKIP doubled the tally
its candidates achieved last year.

This would seem to confirm the message of the opinion polls that the party looks
set for significant gains when the European results are counted tomorrow
evening. However, expectations generated by some polls that UKIP might do most
damage to the Conservatives were not fulfilled in the local elections at least.

The Greens' advance was more modest but the party still passed the 10 per cent
mark in the seats that it fought for the first time in its history. If it has
done that well in the European elections as well then the party may well retain
the two Euro seats that it won five years ago.

But for the BNP at least the tide may have begun to recede. Although it still
averaged 16 per cent of the vote in the wards that it contested, this
represented a drop of nine points on its performance where it also contested a
ward last year. The party even fell to fourth place in Burnley, hitherto the
scene of its biggest success, although at the same time it also made three
surprise gains in Epping Forest. Overall, it looks as though the party's hopes
of securing an MEP may be dashed.

In recent years any loser at local elections has always had recourse to an easy
excuse - turnout was so low that nothing of significance could be inferred from
the results. But that excuse disappeared at these elections. Turnout was
restored to the kind of level that used to be the norm before the 1997 general
election, averaging around 40 per cent.

Moreover, contrary to expectations before polling day, the increase was not
simply occasioned by the use of all-postal ballots. While turnout rose on
average by 13 points in areas where there was an all-postal ballot, it also rose
by six points where conventional ballots were held. One possibility is that
having the chance to vote in two elections rather than one persuaded some voters
that it was worth turning out.

But the other possibility is that the apathy of recent years has been reversed.
Perhaps the message of recent opinion polls that Labour was no longer miles
ahead has begun to percolate through to voters, persuading them that turning out
to vote was now more likely to make a difference. Or perhaps some voters
returned to the polls because they wanted to express their disapproval of the
Labour government.

Either way, if the electorate has begun to re-engage with the ballot box, then
the impetus towards all-postal ballots may well recede. In any event the
seven-point difference between the increase in turnout in areas in all-postal
ballots and that elsewhere is rather less than had been anticipated from
previous all-postal experiments. Indeed it may well prove to be the case that
all-postal ballots have induced rather less than John Prescott's target of a
million extra voters to the polls in the European elections.

Still, doubtless the all-postal ballots experiment will be subjected to an
exhaustive evaluation after the extensive criticism it has faced. And if it has
any sense Labour will conduct a similar inquest into its own performance.

John Curtice is professor of politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              82 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

LEADING ARTICLE: THE VOTERS HAVE DEMONSTRATED THEIR CONTEMPT FOR THE WAR IN IRAQ

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 879 words


IN A welcome departure from the usual post-election script, John Prescott, the
Deputy Prime Minister, displayed brutal honesty. Abandoning any attempts at
phoney triumphalism, he admitted that the voters had given Labour a "good
kicking". Indeed they have; the voters have given Labour its biggest kicking
since Tony Blair became leader in 1994. In London, opinion polls in advance of
the result all suggested that Mr Livingstone would have won by a wide margin if
he had stood as an independent. The endorsement from Mr Blair turned out to be a
millstone around his neck.

The scale of Labour's losses confirms that the party is being punished for Mr
Blair's decision to support the war against Iraq, together with the manner in
which he sold the conflict to the public. It was the main excuse of Cabinet
ministers as they toured the studios yesterday. All of them repeated the mantra
that the elections had taken place in the shadow of the war - which was
interesting since, until now, ministers have insisted that the conflict was
merely a "Westminster village" obsession. It was good to see some belated
honesty on this issue, even if it was forced out by the voters.

If there is one clear message from these elections, it is that politicians are
foolish to believe in the gullibility of the electorate. Instead, voters
demonstrated that they do not forgive a Prime Minister who takes the country to
war on a false premise. Mr Blair hoped voters would "move on" to other issues.
Instead, he has received a sharp reminder of the size of his task in regaining
the public's trust after his repeated declarations in the build-up to war that
Saddam's weapons of mass destruction posed an imminent threat. The key issue now
is whether the voters can trust his claims about the Government's domestic
record after he has debased his position in this way.

Additionally, Labour should be concerned about the damage to the party's power
base in many parts of the country. Party managers should take a long, hard look
at what happened when Conservative prime ministers allowed the Tory strongholds
in Scotland, the North and the Midlands to be breached; the party is still
suffering the effects of this today.

By contrast, the Conservatives can take some comfort from last night's results,
especially as they were heading for electoral oblivion last autumn under Iain
Duncan Smith. Michael Howard's leadership has given them a fresh credibility and
impetus, and they have begun to claw back some of their lost ground. However, on
any realistic assessment, the general election winning post remains some
distance over the horizon.

Mr Howard, who wisely resisted the temptation to make grandiose claims on the
back of these results, should enjoy the weekend. Late on Sunday evening, when
the European election results are revealed, he will have rather more awkward
questions to answer on the issue that has tormented his party for two decades.
Polls suggest the UK Independence Party has seduced a significant number of
traditional Tory voters; already there are signs of renewed divisions within the
Conservative Party about how to respond to this threat.

The Liberal Democrats are the main beneficiaries of this disillusionment over Mr
Blair's support for war. Having taken a courageous stance on this conflict, they
deserved their spectacular gains. No wonder Charles Kennedy chose to make an
appearance in Newcastle yesterday. Labour ruled the city with a big majority
even during the party's darkest days in the 1980s; this morning, it is under
Liberal Democrat control.

Mr Kennedy, however, cannot be too euphoric. His party made gains largely at the
expense of Labour. At a general election, the Liberal Democrats' main targets
will be Conservative seats. But they did much less well in Tory strongholds and
in some cases the Conservatives made gains at their expense. This continues to
be the dilemma for a third party within a two-party system.

With a higher turnout than expected, there were encouraging signs that voters
made intelligent use of the choices available to them. The Greens performed
well, especially in London, while the loathsome BNP did not make much progress.
The indications are that voters were comfortable with the range of choices and
elections on offer, tailoring their votes in a sophisticated manner.

The big question, of course, is whether the electorate, dismayed by Mr Blair's
behaviour on the international stage, has delivered a shot across his bows or
registered a more permanent loss of faith. Mr Blair's ill- judged alliance with
President Bush was based partly on the calculation that Labour-supporting
opponents of the war would have nowhere else to go. The voters have shown this
is not the case; Mr Blair, having abused their trust, has a tough challenge to
bring them back into the fold before the general election.

This is half time in the biggest electoral test before the general election. The
final score will not be clear until Sunday evening. But, as matters stand, Mr
Blair can no longer claim to be the great vote winner for his party. This is a
dangerous position for him to be in - and he can no longer delude himself over
the depth of the public's distaste for his foreign adventurism.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              83 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

FROM THE INDEPENDENT ARCHIVE 16 JUNE 1999

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 307 words


From a leading article on the last elections for the European Parliament FAR
MORE important than the figures for the share of the vote won by any of the
parties in the European Parliament elections is the 23 per cent figure
representing that proportion of the Great British electorate that could be
bothered to vote at all. It is a depressing figure, which certainly takes the
shine off the more happy-clappy claims of Tony Blair's cheerleaders. The Labour
tactic of pinning its European election campaign on Mr Blair's "strong
leadership" has come unstuck, which just goes to show what a transient and
shallow accolade the "highest opinion-poll ratings in history" confer.

There are two myths about the low turnout, however, that ought to be cut off at
the root before they have time to grow. One is that it reflects a wave of
anti-euro or anti-Europe hostility that is sweeping the nation and making
Britain's joining the single currency unthinkable.

Those who oppose Britain's membership of the European Union had a wide choice of
parties to vote for, ranging from the British National Party, through the UK
Independence Party, to the Socialist Labour Party - as well as the Conservative
Party. The evidence suggests that those who do not like Europe were more likely
to vote last week than to stay at home.

The other myth is that last week's vote somehow represents an emphatic rejection
of the new proportional representation system. But to assume that people stayed
at home because they objected to the closed-list system implies a degree of
electoral sophistication that, however desirable, is not yet evident. The most
likely explanation for the low turnout is simply relatively contented apathy.
That is hardly a message to stitch on to the banner of democracy, but it is a
measure of some kind of satisfaction.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              84 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

ERRORS & OMISSIONS: LEFT HANGING BY THOSE TROUBLESOME PARTICIPLES

BYLINE: GUY KELENY

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 710 words


Oh no!" I hear you exclaim. There is perhaps no more tiresome obsession among
pedants than the hanging participle. But it really does matter. Here is Johann
Hari on Wednesday, describing the fate of children whose mothers are sent to
prison. "Many mothers arrive in prison distraught, explaining that there is
nobody to pick up their kids from school. Living chaotic lives, in denial about
the possibility of custody, their children are punished even more for their
mothers' shoplifting or drug addiction."

Now it is plainly the mothers who are living chaotic lives and are in denial
about the possibility that they may be sent to jail. Hence they fail to make
sensible arrangements for their children to be looked after in that eventuality.
That is what the writer meant, but not what he wrote. For the present participle
"living", after the manner of its kind, will attach itself to the nearest noun,
especially if that noun is the subject of the main verb "are punished". That
noun is "children". The possessive pronoun "their" (referring to the mothers)
has nothing like the same pulling power. So the sentence means that the children
live chaotic lives etc.

The dissonance between what the words are plainly trying to say and what they
actually mean jangles painfully in the reader's mind.

Rank ignorance: We displayed our usual shaky grasp of military detail on
Thursday when reporting on an inquest into the death of a non-commissioned
officer from the Household Cavalry. In the headline, the man was called an
officer, suggesting that he was a commissioned officer. The second paragraph of
the report called him a corporal. All this confusion would have been cleared up
if anybody involved with this story had known a simple but perhaps arcane fact:
Corporal of Horse is a rank peculiar to the Household Cavalry, equivalent to a
sergeant in other regiments. The unfortunate man appears to have been a corporal
of horse in the Life Guards.

(Incidentally, The Daily Telegraph, the paper that is supposed to have military
tradition running in its every vein, did little better, with vague references to
"the Queen's Life Guard" and a "corporal of the horse". The new owners, when
they arrive at Canary Wharf, are clearly going to have to start with a few
exemplary courts martial.)

Metaphor soup: It has been a big week for mixed metaphors. On Monday, a business
story about the recent upheavals at Marks & Spencer lurched from the shooting
range to the poker table, reporting that "last week's bid was no more than a
sighting shot, implying there was always the intention to up the ante". On
Wednesday's opinion page, Michael Brown achieved a daring synthesis of chemistry
and physics with "This certainly turned out to be the catalyst for allowing the
UKIP campaign to gain momentum". Last Saturday, a news story began with this
remarkable image: "They are the nascent standard-bearers for British poetry."
You can just see them, emerging from the womb waving their little Union Flags.

Wonder-horses: A sport page reported on Wednesday: "While England trained at the
Estadio Nacional yesterday, mounted police patrolled the wooden slopes
overlooking the pitch." That should be "wooded slopes". Portuguese police horses
are, no doubt, remarkable animals, but I don't believe even they can keep their
footing on wooden slopes.

Banking secrets: On Wednesday, we reported the appearance before an employment
tribunal of "a senior female banker". Perhaps there is an order of seniority
among female bankers. But if not, that should have been "a female senior
banker".

Cliche of the week: "An elderly woman had a lucky escape yesterday," we reported
on Monday, "after an explosion razed her house to the ground, burying her under
the rubble." "Raze" is derived from a Latin verb meaning to scrape (see also
"razor"). It paints a picture of a structure being cut right down to ground
level by some deliberate and systematic action, as when fortifications are
levelled. "To the ground" is otiose. In this case, the house was merely
destroyed by accident, and a photograph accompanying the story showed a pile of
wreckage as high as a man - nowhere near ground level. At least we did not call
the woman's escape miraculous.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              85 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

IF TONY BLAIR HOPES TO WIN AT THE NEXT ELECTION, HE MUST ADMIT HIS ERRORS OVER
IRAQ

BYLINE: ROBIN COOK

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1196 words


Anybody spotted a Baghdad Bounce lately? You may remember that fantastical
creature. It was supposed to emerge on polling day last year as a grateful
nation recorded its appreciation of military victory with its votes. David
Blunkett claimed to have heard it last May in North Kent. Yesterday, David was
refreshingly candid in admitting that the latest results left him "mortified".

The only credible response for a Labour politician faced with such results is to
put up his hands and concede they are awful. Traditionally, one of Labour's
strengths has been its grassroots presence on local councils. Labour has never
found itself in third place in local elections since reorganisation 30 years
ago, and probably never since the days of Ramsay MacDonald. After losing
Newcastle, Leeds and St Helens, we are in a position unique in modern Labour
history of holding few of the councils of the great Midlands and Northern
industrial cities. Nor can we suck comfort by pleading a low turnout. Thanks,
partly, to our own experiment with postal ballots, the turnout in some cities
was within 10 percentage points of the last general election.

It is, of course, unjust. This Labour Government has done more to deliver on the
domestic priorities of the Labour heartlands than any in my lifetime. We have
produced the biggest new investment in the NHS in its history and are the only
major economy boosting rather than cutting spending on hospitals and schools. We
have presided over an increase of two million jobs, and policies such as the New
Deal have wiped unemployment off the political agenda. We have redistributed
benefits and tax breaks to young families and, as a result, are on course to
halving the number of children living in poverty.

It could be a winning record, if we could only get anyone to talk about it. Tony
Blair has complained that Iraq has "overshadowed" Labour's domestic performance.
This is a bit of an understatement. It might be more accurate to say that the
Iraq debacle has carpet-bombed Labour's reputation. It is a paradox that New
Labour, which so compulsively tracks opinion polls and studies the entrails of
focus groups, should have proved so stubborn in taking on the public over Iraq.

I have addressed around 4,000 people over the past month at meetings from
Aberdeen to Luton, from Hay to Canterbury. It is impossible to miss the real
anger of committed Labour voters that the Government they supported persisted in
a war which they opposed. The anger is felt even more intensely among Muslim
communities. In the build-up to the war, I once expressed, in Cabinet, my
concern that the invasion of Iraq would alienate our Muslim population, and
found myself roundly rebuked by a colleague for presenting Muslim citizens as a
fifth-column, disloyal to the war effort. In desperation this week, the
Government pleaded for support from Muslim voters on the imaginative but
unconvincing grounds that most of the MPs who had voted against the war had been
Labour.

The political fallout from the war goes deeper than damage to Labour's vote. It
has further corroded confidence in the democratic process.

Those who opposed the war are frustrated that they could not get their voice
heard, despite mounting the largest political demonstration in British history.
In persevering with its own agenda on Iraq and ignoring opposition, Downing
Street further undermined any sense of ownership of the political process by the
British public.

Many of even those who supported the war feel cheated. They bought the case for
war on the guarantee that Saddam had weapons of mass destruction and have
discovered that they were sold a pup. The crisis in trust which this has
triggered is not just a problem for Labour. It has deepened public mistrust of
politicians in general and especially those in office.

The growing public disaffection with mainstream politics is reflected in the
decline in the combined share of the vote of the two major parties this week,
which is another six points down on the local elections of four years ago. Even
as I write, I can hear the Conservative chairman Liam Fox reaching for his phone
to complain that the entire drop is confined to the Labour vote. This is true,
but it should trouble him that the worst performance by Labour in living memory
did not result in any rise in the Tory share of the vote. The beneficiaries were
third parties - the Liberal Democrats, the Green Party and UKIP. Britain is
emerging into a more pluralist political spectrum.

One lesson is that both major political parties need to move beyond negative
campaigning, which only makes sense in the zero sum game of two-party politics.
Thumping our opponent in a pluralist environment simply knocks off more votes to
be picked up by third parties and does nothing for our own support. Bizarrely,
Labour's main message in these elections was that Michael Howard was too
right-wing, which did not play to any of the powerful, positive reasons to vote
Labour, and may even have reduced Tory defections to UKIP. Tony Blair has not
made a single speech in the whole European election campaign giving a positive
reason for supporters of the European project to vote Labour.

At least Labour's leadership is no longer in denial about the depths of public
concern over Iraq. Yesterday, the airwaves were thick with comforting words from
ministers for the Labour casualties of the local elections, promising that, as
Iraq "comes right", public perceptions will change. I hope for the sake of its
people that their optimism about Iraq is better founded this year than it was
last year. But I am not sure they are right to imagine that public perceptions
of the misadventure can ever be turned positive. Nothing that happens from now
on will change the history that the war was launched on a false prospectus, the
occupation was ill prepared, and the brutality at Abu Ghraib was a disgrace to
all members of the coalition.

Britain is in Iraq, and Labour is in this fix, because the Prime Minister
refused to heed any warning of the risks. No one has ever been more eloquent
than Tony Blair on the importance of each individual facing up to personal
responsibility, and on Iraq the responsibility is all his.

The Labour high command knows it, too. Strikingly, they chose not to include
Tony Blair in a single one of their election party political broadcasts. We
cannot fight a general election by keeping the PM out of the campaign.

Tony Blair is entitled to credit for a transformation of British society and
public services, but it will always be denied to him so long as he insists he
was right and the public were wrong about joining Bush's war. I understand that
Tony Blair is determined to lead Labour into the next election. If that is his
intention, he must make clear there will be no more "Iraqs" if he is re-elected.
This is more than a matter of clever positioning. The real problem is that, in
his heart, Tony Blair remains convinced that he was right and that he should be
ready to do it again.

So long as they suspect that is the case, many of the voters who have deserted
Labour will not return.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              86 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

FOOTBALL: EURO 2004: CAN ENGLAND WIN EURO 2004?

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 85

LENGTH: 260 words


SIR STIRLING MOSS

Formula One legend

"I think they can and I hope they do. The first job is to get a result against
the French and I believe they will. The French in general are full of hot air,
as you can see from politics in Europe. That's why I voted UKIP. A good start in
the France game is important and then we're on the way."

HOPE POWELL

England women's football coach

"Sven's squad is his strongest yet in terms of age, experience and quality.
Player for player I'm not sure that they're the strongest squad. But success
depends on a lot of factors, luck, and the draw later. It's going to be a tough
challenge."

GRAEME SWANN

Northants and England A cricketer

"I think England's chances are very good. They are pretty solid at the back and
have a very strong midfield, while in Paul Scholes and Michael Owen they have
two players for the big occasion. I think Scholes will be a key player."

SIR CLIVE WOODWARD

England rugby union coach

"Yes, they can win. I certainly think they have what it takes to beat France -
2-1 is my prediction. They should remember that all the hard work has been done,
that from here on in it's about mental attitude, putting a game plan in place
and adhering to it. I think they should play an English game and get stuck into
people."

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN

French tennis player

"England have a good chance, even if they don't win the first match of the
group. But France will win the tournament. If you think how well Arsenal have
done - and then add players like Zidane."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              87 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

OUT OF TOON, TONY

BYLINE: STEPHEN WHITE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 223 words


SOME pundits blamed the war in Iraq.

But in Newcastle, the reasons Geordies gave for ending 30 years of Labour rule
were closer to home.

Dirty streets, too many roadworks, high council tax - a party out of touch.

Victorious local Lib Dem leader Peter Arnold summed it up perfectly.

"Labour was in power for too long," he said. "Some of them had been councillors
for 30 years. Labour's ageing. New blood hasn't come forward, so they haven't
been able to respond properly.

"We want to get rid of the idea that the council knows best."

His views were echoed on the streets. One cabbie said: "I've voted Labour all my
life but this time I voted UKIP in Europe and Lib Dem in the city.

"Labour's out of touch. They thought what we said didn't matter and they could
do as they liked. I'm delighted they're out."

He hit out at bad local management and excessive roadworks and bus lanes - the
council "doing their best to bring the city to a standstill". Beaten Labour
leader Tony Flynn, who lost his seat, blamed national and international issues.

Not a view shared by voters. As trainee solicitor Andrew Bradley, 23, who voted
Tory, said: "The Labour council got lazy and complacent.

"I think they had been in power too long and had forgotten what it was like to
have to convince voters to vote for you."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              88 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

KICK IN THE POLLS;
 PM: I'D LIKE TO SAY SORRY TO ALL WHO LOST THEIR SEATS

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS, ROSA PRINCE AND OONAGH BLACKMAN IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 829 words


LABOUR admitted last night they "got a kicking" in the town hall elections after
finishing third on nationwide share of the vote.

Tony Blair faced calls to resign from Labour MPs who blame him for the worst
local authority poll defeat in living memory.

The Premier - in the US for Ronald Reagan's funeral - said: "I would like to say
how sorry I am to individual councillors who have lost their seats."

He urged the party to hold its nerve and said the setback made him "want to see
through what we have begun".

Deputy PM John Prescott insisted Labour would come back and win the general
election because of their policies on schools, hospital and crime.

Mr Prescott said: "People like those policies but they didn't judge this
election on that. Iraq was a cloud...I am not saying we haven't had a kicking.
It's not a great day for Labour."

David Blunkett said: "I'm not here to do propaganda, I'm mortified."

Gordon Brown, rallying to Mr Blair, said last night: "Labour will win the
general election with Tony Blair.

"We won the 1997 and 2001 elections, we are not complacent and we will fight
with our positive policies on the health service, education, the economy, full
employment."

Mr Brown added: "I am happy doing the job I am doing. We fight as a team in the
Labour Party."

After crisis meetings, the mood at Labour HQ, boosted by Ken Livingstone's
re-election as London mayor, was "grim determination" to fight on. Insiders said
the Tories had not done enough to win at a general election.

They forecast the mood would turn after the European results tomorrow, with Tory
defections to UKIP.

But there was real fear among Labour backbenchers that more than 100 could lose
their seats in a national poll expected next year.

With nearly all the local results in last night, Labour had lost 461 council
seats - worse than they expected.

The Tories had gained 259 and the Liberal Democrats 129.

Labour citadels fell - Newcastle for the first time in 30 years, Swansea,
Burnley, Bridgend and Cardiff. The Conservatives polled a 38 per cent share of
the vote, putting them within striking distance of a majority at a general
election, according to a BBC projection.

The Lib Dems were second on 29, with Labour on 26. Turnout in local elections,
after the postal ballot trial, was up by an average of nine per cent on last
year to 40 per cent.

Labour MPs turned on Mr Blair. Christine McCafferty, of Calder Valley, West
Yorks, said on Iraq: "If the Prime Minister were to hold his hands up and say 'I
got it wrong' and perhaps apologise, maybe people would be willing to trust
again."

Clare Short said: "The electorate is sending a message to Tony Blair because the
Labour Party seems incapable of correcting him." Home Secretary Mr Blunkett
said: "We have got to look at ourselves." Mr Blair had been given the results as
he flew in to Washington for ex-president Reagan's funeral.

Last night, after leaving the state ceremony, he made his starkest admission yet
on the damage done to the Government by the Iraq war.

After apologising to defeated councillors, he said: "The fact that the
Government loses council election results does not really augur much for the
general election.

"I think Iraq has been a shadow over our support. But we have to understand
these decisions arise in government."

He added: "I think it is a question of holding our nerve and seeing it through
and realising, yes, Iraq has been an immensely difficult decision. It was a very
divisive issue. I understand why people worry about the basis on which we went
to war."

There was no "big compelling argument coming the other way" from the Tories. He
attacked the Lib Dems for focusing solely on Iraq.

He said the economy was thriving and people were realising that public
investment was paying off.

Tory leader Michael Howard said: "I said we would become a party for all Britons
and all Britain. After last night, that is now the case."

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy was "delighted" at their second place. The
contest now would be "three-party politics writ large".

In Newcastle, Labour's defeat was put down to reasons close to home. Dirty
streets, roadworks, high council tax and a party out of touch were said to have
contributed to defeat.

The Lib Dems said: "Labour was in power for too long."

The far-right British National Party took four seats in Bradford, scene of race
riots in 2001. It also won three at Epping Forest, Essex.

Overall, it was only one seat up with a total of 17 local councillors.

-ONE area in Slough, Berks, was decided on a dice toss, in line with rules that
say a game of chance can decide after two recounts. After three recounts, Tory
leader Derek Cryer beat independent Jeremiah Dwyer by throwing a five to his
rival's two.

-A BOX crammed with votes was found under a table almost an hour after the
result was announced in Walsall. The result will stand.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              89 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

KEN STAYS AS MAYOR

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 196 words

HIGHLIGHT: VICTORY: Mayor Livingstone


KEN Livingstone claimed victory in the London Mayoral race last night despite a
late surge in support for Tory rival Steve Norris.

Mr Livingstone clinched 828,380 votes for Labour to Mr Norris's 667,178. Liberal
Democrat candidate Simon Hughes received 284,645.

But Mr Livingstone no longer controls a third of seats on the Assembly and his
budget can be blocked by the opposition. He also lost one of his staunchest
allies, Lord Toby Harris, leader of the Labour Group, who lost his seat for
Brent & Harrow.

Last night Lord Harris said: "There has been a tide against us."

The result will be a huge relief for Tony Blair after Labour lost heavily in the
council elections in England and Wales.

Mr Livingstone said: "I am delighted to have delivered a Labour victory.

"Steve posed more of a threat than I would have liked. It was a good wake- up
call to everybody that the election mattered." Mr Norris said it was an
"extremely creditable" Tory result.

And UKIP's candidate Frank Maloney, the former boxing promoter who got 100,000
votes, said: "I'm glad the BNP appeared to have suffered through UKIP. I'm glad
we helped kill their vote off."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              90 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

BLAIR WILL SURVIVE HIS BLACK MONDAY

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 380 words


TONY Blair will face his Waterloo at 6pm on Monday evening.

The battered Prime Minister will stand up in front of Labour MPs to find out
whether they think he has now become too much of a liability to lead them into
the next general election.

Yesterday's disastrous results delivered the bloody punishment Mr Blair expected
- and a lot more.

One senior Labour official insisted last night: "It's not worse than we thought
because we thought it would be terrible."

Others say the scale of the kicking, particularly in Labour heartlands, is the
worst-case scenario and at the grim end of all predictions.

The symbolism of losing councils like Newcastle, for the first time in 30 years,
cannot be under-estimated.

As Newcastle's defeated Labour Leader said yesterday, he simply could not fight
off the hostility over national issues like the Iraq war.

That weakening of bedrock support in northern cities will trigger waves of panic
across Labour ranks this weekend as MPs calculate the increased risk of their
own demise.

LABOUR could have lived with up to 300 losses. But trailing in at third place as
a sitting government is nightmarish for many in the Party.

The loss of Muslim voters is a bitter blow. It clearly terrified David Blunkett
who went seriously off message yesterday and said he was "mortified."

Of course it did not help that Mr Blair was 3,000 miles away in Washington after
spending the previous three days in America's deep South with President Bush.

Yesterday I watched him take the first results by phone as we flew over
Washington.

He looked grim. When he looked up he tried the famous smile but it fell flat.

The night before he again said Iraq was the "shadow" haunting Labour support.

He under-estimated the length of that shadow.

The UN resolution on the end of occupation in Iraq came too late. As have NHS
improvements.

But the economy is strong. There are two million more jobs. And there is no
alternative political party on public services.

By tomorrow night the European election results will be clear and the tables are
likely to be turned on Michael Howard as Tory supporters desert to UKIP.

Those factors will be enough to get Mr Blair through his Waterloo at Westminster
on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              91 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 12, 2004

WE GOT A KICKING..

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: BLAIR SUFFERS A POLL DISASTER

LENGTH: 802 words


Labour are battered and Tories celebrate

LABOUR'S votes crisis is illustrated by these 15 results - key battlegrounds
they must win in a General Election.

TONY Blair was on the ropes last night after Labour suffered one of the worst
poll hammerings in British history.

Labour were smashed into an embarrassing THIRD place in town hall elections the
first time any sitting government has been so humiliated.

Disgruntled voters booted out more than 460 Labour councillors. And the number
of town halls they control was cut by SEVEN.

It was Mr Blair's worst night since he won the Labour crown a decade ago.

Labour chiefs last night admitted they had been given "a good kicking" but tried
to blame the rout on an anti Iraq War protest.

Fuming Deputy PM John Prescott confessed on the BBC: "I am not saying we haven't
had a kicking. It's not a great day for Labour."

Meltdown

The result is certain to trigger fresh calls for the PM to stand down and hand
power to Chancellor Gordon Brown before a General Election.

But Mr Blair brushed aside murmurs about his leadership and urged Labour
supporters to "hold your nerve".

After leaving the funeral of former US President Ronald Reagan in Washington, he
said: "It makes me want to see through what we have begun."

Mr Blair -pictured below -told Adam Boulton of Sky News: "The fact that the
Government lost council results does not really augur much for the General
Election.

"I think there are lessons we have to learn. What we have to do is to hold our
nerve."

Evidence shows voters turned their backs on Labour in huge numbers because they
have stopped trusting Mr Blair.

They also believe Labour cannot be trusted to run town halls without wasting
huge sums of taxpayers' cash.

Labour chiefs are so gloomy they are even praying for England to beat France in
tomorrow night's Euro 2004 opener to wipe away the election rout.

Michael Howard's Tories trumpeted Labour's disaster and claimed it showed they
are on the way back to No10.

Ousted

Mr Howard -pictured above right celebrating in Trafford, Greated Manchester -
declared: "I said we would become a party for all Britons and all Britain. After
last night that is now the case.

"We had excellent results. We are now represented up and down the country in
cities where we want to play an important part."

The Tories polled 38 per cent of the vote -a massive 12 per cent ahead of
Labour's paltry 26 per cent.

That gap would see the PM ousted from Downing Street in next year's General
Election.

Election arithmetic means the Tories need only an 11.5 per cent lead over Labour
to seize power. Bookmakers William Hill cut the odds on a Tory general election
victory from 5-2 to 7-4. Labour were 2-7, from 2-5, and the odds on Tony Blair
stepping down were cut from 13-8 to 11-8.

Charles Kennedy was also triumphant last night after the Lib Dems took second
place with 30 per cent of the vote.

He said: "The Lib Dems are emerging as an effective alternative to the
Government across huge swathes of the country." The Lib Dems took control of
NEWCASTLE City Council -ending 30 years of Labour rule.

Labour also lost control of its South Wales heartlands of CARDIFF, SWANSEA and
BRIDGEND as the Lib Dems made inroads. In Cardiff, Labour lost nearly half its
seats.

And it lost overall control of LEEDS for the first time in 24 years -mainly due
to Lib Dem gains. Labour also lost BASSETLAW, Notts, BURNLEY, Lancs, ST HELENS,
Merseyside, OXFORD, IPSWICH and HASTINGS, East Sussex. The Conservatives seized
control of BRENTWOOD, Essex, where the Lib Dems dominated for 12 years.

Bernard Jenkin, Tory MP for North Essex and shadow secretary of state for the
regions, said: "It shows we can turn the tide and the tide is turning." The
Tories also gained TRAFFORD, Greater Manchester, ROSSEND ALE, Lancs, WORTHING,
West Sussex, EASTBOURNE, East Sussex, TAMWORTH, Staffs, THURROCK, Essex, and
DUDLEY, West Midlands.

The British National Party won three seats in EPPING FOREST, Essex, and four in
BRADFORD -where there were race riots in 2001. Mr Blair's one crumb of comfort
will come tomorrow when votes are counted for the European Parliament -with the
UK Independence Party likely to rob the Tories of support.

More people bothered to vote in areas trying out all-postal ballots. Around 44
per cent voted compared with 37.5 per cent in other areas.

But Shadow Leader of the House Oliver Heald said police were investigating a
"whole raft" of complaints about alleged vote rigging.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "We will be looking at the results of the
pilots and seeing if there are any lessons to be learned from them."

Overall turnout was up by nine per cent on last year's local polls to 40 per
cent.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              92 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 12, 2004

RED KEN STAYS ON...TO FIGHT

SECTION: BLAIR SUFFERS A POLL DISASTER

LENGTH: 132 words


KEN Livingstone held on to his job as London Mayor last night but lost control
of his budget.

He was re-elected with 828,380 votes to Tory Steve Norris's 667,178 -despite
anger at the congestion charge and his pledge to raise taxes.

But the London Assembly came under Tory control with nine seats as Labour's
share fell to seven. The Lib Dems won five, the Green Party two -and the UKIP
won their first two.

It means Red Ken -whose budget has doubled in four years to Pounds 8BILLION -
faces a fight every time he wants to spend large sums.

Things were made harder after key Assembly ally Toby Harris, Labour Group leader
and Metropolitan Police Authority boss, lost Brent & Harrow to the Tories.

Turnout was 36 per cent -1,869,671 out of a 5,197,647 electorate.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              93 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 12, 2004

10 YEARS OF TRUST ARE OVER

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson, Deputy political editor

SECTION: COMMENTARY; OPINION; BLAIR SUFFERS A POLL DISASTER

LENGTH: 249 words


TONY Blair's ten-year reign as the Teflon Man of politics is over.

This was no ordinary protest vote against a government with mid-term blues.

Super Thursday's hammering for Labour raises huge questions about the PM's
future.

You have to go back to the dark days of Michael Foot's so-called leadership to
find such a disastrous poll result.

Voters nationwide have sent the PM a crystal clear message -Labour have lost the
benefit of the doubt.

They didn't rush to the Tories -which is a crumb of comfort to Labour HQ.

But Mr Blair should be under no illusions as he mulls over the results of the
elections.

Nearly 500 councillors dumped, turfed out of control in a string of key town
halls and winning a pathetic 26 per cent of the vote.

Gordon Brown's pals are already flexing their muscles by talking about the
Labour leadership.

Mr Blair undoubtedly paid the price for the war to oust Saddam Hussein from Iraq
and the chaos seen in the aftermath.

Voters feel let down by tax hikes to pay for better schools and hospitals which
haven't appeared.

They also feel let down by promises of better transport and a crackdown on
violent crime -which haven't appeared.

But they also wanted to fire a warning shot across Europe's bows.

The surge of support for the UK Independence Party shows ordinary workers in
Britain are fed up with the surrender of power to Brussels.

Unless Mr Blair stands up for the UK, they'll kick him where it really hurts.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              94 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 12, 2004

WE GOT A KICKING..

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: BLAIR SUFFERS A POLL DISASTER

LENGTH: 935 words


Labour are battered and Tories celebrate

LABOUR lost more than 400 town hall seats and control of strongholds they had
held for decades. Here are results from 15 battlegrounds which will be crucial
at the General Election.

TONY Blair was on the ropes last night after Labour suffered one of the worst
poll hammerings in British history.

Labour were smashed into an embarrassing THIRD place in town hall elections the
first time any sitting government has been so humiliated.

Disgruntled voters booted out more than 400 Labour councillors and turfed them
out of power in at least EIGHT town halls.

Mr Blair haemorrhaged support nationwide in the worst night since he won the
Labour crown a decade ago.

Labour chiefs last night admitted they had been given "a good kicking" but tried
to blame the rout on an anti Iraq War protest.

Fuming Deputy PM John Prescott confessed on the BBC: "I am not saying we haven't
had a kicking. It's not a great day for Labour."

Meltdown

And Home Secretary David Blunkett added: "I am mortified that we are not doing
better than we have done.

"We know it has been a bad night, but we are obviously going to have to present
the facts as they are. It was not a meltdown, though.

"We can't blame the electorate. We have got to look at ourselves. I think we
have actually got to ask ourselves questions about how we are seen, how we are
heard, how we speak to people."

Labour chiefs are so gloomy they are even praying for England to beat France in
tomorrow night's Euro 2004 opener to wipe away the election rout.

Evidence shows voters turned their backs on Labour in huge numbers because they
have stopped trusting Mr Blair.

They also believe Labour cannot be trusted to run town halls without wasting
huge sums of taxpayers' cash.

Last night's doom-laden results spell bad news for the PM's bid to shore up
party support in Westminster.

The rout is bound to raise a fresh whispering campaign about Mr Blair's
leadership, with calls for him to stand down and hand power to Chancellor Gordon
Brown before the next general election.

Plotting

Last night former Cabinet minister Nick Brown -Gordon Brown's cheerleader -
warned he was planning to discuss the results with backbenchers.

Dozens of Labour MPs risk losing their seats and some believe replacing Mr Blair
with Mr Brown could save them.

But Mr Brown last night moved swiftly to crush talk of him replacing the PM.

He said: "Labour will win the next election with Tony Blair." The Chancellor
knew he had no choice but to throw his weight behind Mr Blair in public so he
could not be accused of plotting.

Michael Howard's Tories trumpeted Labour's disaster and claimed it showed they
are on the way back to No10.

Mr Howard -pictured above right celebrating in Trafford, Greated Manchester -
declared: "I said we would become a party for all Britons and all Britain. After
last night that is now the case.

"We had excellent results. We are now represented up and down the country in
cities where we want to play an important part." The Tories polled 38 per cent
of the vote -a massive 12 per cent ahead of Labour's paltry 26 per cent.

That gap would see the PM ousted from Downing Street in next year's General
Election.

Election arithmetic means the Tories need only an 11.5 per cent lead over Labour
to seize power.

Bookmakers William Hill cut the odds on a Tory general election victory from 5-2
to 7-4. Labour were 2-7, from 2-5, and the odds on Tony Blair stepping down were
cut from 13-8 to 11-8. Charles Kennedy was also triumphant last night after the
Lib Dems took second place with 30 per cent of the vote.

He said: "The Lib Dems are emerging as an effective alternative to the
Government across huge swathes of the country." The Lib Dems took control of
NEWCASTLE City Council -ending 30 years of Labour rule.

Labour also lost control of its South Wales heartlands of CARDIFF, SWANSEA and
BRIDGEND as the Lib Dems made inroads. On Cardiff Council Labour lost nearly
half its seats. And Labour lost overall control of LEEDS for the first time in
24 years -mainly due to Lib Dem gains.

Labour also lost BASSETLAW, Notts, BURNLEY, Lancs, ST HELENS, Merseyside,
OXFORD, IPSWICH and HASTINGS, East Sussex.

The Conservatives seized control of BRENTWOOD, Essex, where the Lib Dems had
dominated for 12 years.

Bernard Jenkin, Tory MP for North Essex and shadow secretary of state for the
regions, said: "It shows we can turn the tide and the tide is turning."

The Tories also gained TRAFFORD, Greater Manchester, ROSSENDALE, Lancs,
WORTHING, West Sussex, EASTBOURNE, East Sussex, TAMWORTH, Staffs, THURROCK,
Essex, and DUDLEY, West Midlands.

The British National Party won three seats in EPPING FOREST, Essex, and four in
BRADFORD -where there were race riots in 2001.

Mr Blair's one crumb of comfort will come tomorrow when votes are counted for
the European Parliament -with the UK Independence Party likely to rob the Tories
of support.

And Ken Livingstone clung on as London Mayor. More people bothered to vote in
areas trying out all-postal ballots.

Around 44 per cent voted compared with 37.5 per cent in other areas.

But Shadow Leader of the House Oliver Heald said police were investigating a
"whole raft" of complaints about alleged vote rigging.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "We will obviously be looking at the results
of the pilots and seeing if there are any lessons to be learned from them."

Overall turnout was up by nine per cent on last year's local polls to 40 per
cent.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              95 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Voters give Labour a kicking

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 769 words


* Blair under pressure as win for Livingstone is party's sole comfort

A shaken Tony Blair is under pressure to restore Labour's electoral fortunes by
next spring after voters delivered the most serious rebuff to the party for
decades.

As hundreds of seats and town halls fell into Conservative and Liberal Democrat
hands, Labour was driven into third place with just 26 per cent of the vote. It
was the first time a governing party had come third in such elections.

The Conservatives, who secured 38 per cent of the vote, said the result gave
them the solid base they need to win the general election. Labour conceded that
it had been given "a kicking" and the comfortable re-election of Ken Livingstone
as Mayor of London was the only good news for the party on a day of dismal
results.

With three quarters of the council results in, Labour had lost more than 400
seats. The Conservatives had gained more than 200, and the Liberal Democrats
were up by more than 100. Turnout was 40 per cent, nine points up on the local
elections of last year.

In a message to his rattled party, Mr Blair urged activists and MPs to hold
their nerve. "These things happen to governments," he said after attending
Ronald Reagan's funeral in Washington.

Both Mr Blair and his deputy, John Prescott, pointed to the Iraq war as a
crucial factor. Mr Blair said that Iraq had been "an immensely difficult
decision", but it was now a question of seeing it through.

Mr Prescott insisted that the general election would be fought on the
battleground of public services. "They didn't judge this election on that. Iraq
was a cloud, or indeed a shadow, over these elections. I am not saying we
haven't had a kicking.

It's not a great day for Labour."

Critics said the results reopened the question of Mr Blair's leadership. Nick
Brown, the Newcastle MP, whose city council fell to the Liberal Democrats, said
that "senior figures in the party" had been a key issue on the doorsteps and
that he would speak to colleagues over the weekend about how to respond. "We
have got to listen to what people are saying."

Christine McCafferty, MP for Calder Valley, said Mr Blair should admit he was
wrong over Iraq or quit. And Clare Short, the former International Development
Secretary who has previously called for the Prime Minister to resign over Iraq,
said that voters had sent a clear message: "As Tony Blair won't change the
policy, the only way for him to make a correction is for him to step aside."

Blair allies rallied round, insisting that with the situation in Iraq improving,
the Prime Minister would be able to shift focus on to the economy and public
services.

Mr Blair himself tried to quash talk of a leadership crisis, saying the results
"make me want to see through what we have begun". He added, however, that there
were lessons the party had to learn.

Apart from the loss of Newcastle upon Tyne, the worst defeats for Labour
included Leeds and Cardiff, which fell to no overall control, while Tamworth,
Trafford, Brentford and Thurrock all fell into Tory hands.

Those results, along with the Tories' share of the vote, were hailed by a
jubilant Michael Howard, who said the Conservatives had opened up a sufficient
gap with Labour to win the next general election.

Some disappointed Conservative MPs agreed with Labour strategists who said that
the party had failed to make inroads into the northern cities it needs if it is
to form the next Government. It still has no councillors in Liverpool,
Manchester or Newcastle.

The party did make headway in London, however, weakening Mr Livingstone's
powerbase at City Hall, even though its candidate Steven Norris lost the mayoral
race by some 160,000 votes.

Mr Howard was clearly anxious to make the most of yesterday's successes, with
bad news likely when the European election results are declared tomorrow. The
Conservatives have been pressed hard by the UK Independence Party with its
simple message of EU withdrawal.

The Liberal Democrats lost seats to the Tories in the South, but more than made
up for those with gains from Labour in the North.

Charles Kennedy said he was absolutely delighted with what he called their
best-ever result. He said the party's second place "augurs very well indeed" for
a general election.

The far-right British National Party scored a high-profile victory in Bradford,
taking four seats to gain its first foothold in the city. But nationally it
failed to make the breakthrough that many had feared.

Elections, pages 19-26 Matthew Parris, page 30 Leading article, page 31


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              96 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Tories gain ground but not enough to conquer the country

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: Overseas news; 20

LENGTH: 662 words


The Conservatives took hundreds of council seats from Labour and drove them into
third place in the local elections but failed to make the breakthrough in big
cities needed for a general election victory.

Michael Howard's party polled 38 per cent, well ahead of Labour on 26 per cent
and the Liberal Democrats on 30 per cent, their biggest lead over Labour since
John Major won the 1992 election.

It fell short of the 40-42 per cent they would need to win enough parliamentary
seats to form the next Government.

But officials said there was a year to go before the general election and a host
of new policies would soon be announced to persuade voters the party was a
government in waiting.

Mr Howard conducted a whistle-stop tour of town halls seized by his party, and
said that he would build on this week's achievements in the next 12 months.

Speaking outside Trafford town hall, he said: "When I became leader, I said we
would become a party for all Britons and all Britain. After last night that is
now the case."

The party sought to make the most of the results, aware that European election
results on Sunday evening may not make such comfortable reading. They have been
pressed by the United Kingdom Independence Party and could lose seats in the
East Midlands and South West.

Officials singled out wins in Tamworth and Dudley, key areas in the West
Midlands, Trafford and Rossindale in the North West, and Brentwood and Thurrock
in Essex as proof that the Tories were gaining a foothold in towns and cities.
They were also thrilled to take Monmouth, their first council in Wales. The
party has had virtually no presence in Wales since 1997.

But they resisted the temptation to forecast a general election victory,
describing the results as a good base for the next campaign.

"I don't for a minute say that the result today would guarantee the
Conservatives winning a general election. That would be absurd," said Liam Fox,
party co-chairman. "But it's good, solid progress for us. We've been suffering
for a number of years from being a party of rural England and we wanted to make
sure that we were back in the metropolitan areas."

Dr Fox pointed to gains in areas such as the North East and North West as
evidence of success. In particular he hailed regaining Trafford from Labour, one
of their former strongholds, as a significant breakthrough.

Dr Fox, who masterminded the campaign, had been criticised for failing to
predict the challenge posed by the UKIP in the European elections.

He believes the local election results vindicate his decision to spend the first
half of the campaign disparaging Labour's record on the economy and public
services, designed to demoralise Labour activists and core voters.

However, the campaign strategy still has its critics. One senior Tory said the
campaign appeared to run out of steam in the past ten days as the party wrestled
with the UKIP threat.

Officials said the major cities where they failed to make any headway would be
the next target. There are still no Tory councillors in Liverpool, Manchester
and Newcastle, and only a few in Sheffield and Leeds.

A party spokesman said they believed the strong performance by the Liberal
Democrats put Labour in a similar position to that of the Tories in 1997, when
they were squeezed by Labour and the Liberal Democrats who both robbed them of
seats.

"We think the same pincer movement is operating here, which would mean we do not
need the 40 per cent share of the vote to win the next election," he said.

Mr Howard's next important challenge is the Leicester South by-election, where
the Tories are in second place to Labour. After a trip to the constituency
yesterday morning, he toured Swindon, Dudley and Tamworth to trumpet Tory
victories.

Mr Howard will flesh out policies for public service reform over the next few
weeks, with the party's education policy likely for a considerable shake-up.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Livingstone wins London with reduced majority

BYLINE: Greg Hurst, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 21

LENGTH: 1014 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE was re-elected to a second term as Mayor yesterday, but with a
narrower majority after standing under Labour's colours.

He immediately pledged himself to work for a Labour victory in the general
election, although he did not mention Tony Blair by name and talked proudly of
his own record in redistributing wealth in the capital.

As expected, Mr Livingstone finished comfortably ahead on first-preference
votes, with almost 35 per cent, but with not enough to win outright.

Steve Norris, the Tory candidate, increased his support marginally from four
years ago to 28 per cent, but was beaten comfortably by the incumbent Mayor when
those second-preference votes were added.

In a brief acceptance speech, Mr Livingstone said that he could not have won
without support from the Government for extra police and more buses. "I am
delighted to have delivered a Labour victory here in this city," he declared.

"The increased vote for Steve Norris showed that the Conservatives had to be
taken seriously," he said, and people faced a choice in the months ahead about
public services and how to provide for the poorest in society. "I am proud to
say we have set out to redistribute wealth in this administration," he added.

Mr Norris was gracious in defeat, saying the campaign had been conducted on
policy issues and he admired the Mayor for sticking to his principles, even
though he disagreed with him.

It was a rich irony that Mr Livingstone, who was expelled by his party for
standing as an independent last time, gave Labour one of its few causes for
celebration, thanks to his controversial re-admission to its ranks.

His next four years are likely to be more challenging after a change in the
balance of power on the London Assembly left the Mayor dependent on cross party
deals to push through his budgets. In an embarrassment for Labour, Toby Harris,
the party's group leader in the Assembly and chairman of London's Police
Authority, lost his seat of Brent & Harrow to the Conservatives. Labour lost a
second seat, taking its Assembly group down to seven members.

Under its rules, two thirds of the Assembly's members can block the Mayor's
budget. During his first term, Mr Livingstone, although elected as an
independent, had no such worry as he forged a close link with the then Labour
group of nine.

Mr Livingstone has promised to make his congestion charge more user friendly and
consult on his plan to extend it westwards, improve bus and Tube services, cut
air pollution with new controls on exhaust emission and put more neighbourhood
police on the beat.

His battlefront with the Government is likely to switch from the Tube to
overland rail services as the Mayor demands control over suburban trains, which
ministers will resist. His re-election follows a low-key campaign that failed to
capture the imagination of many Londoners, but which suited Mr Livingstone as
the incumbent.

Electors gave him credit for introducing his congestion charge, despite its
unpopularity in some quarters, and no single rival candidate was able to become
the sole repository of the anti-Livingstone vote.

Mr Norris devoted his second tilt at becoming mayor almost entirely to a theme
of crime, earning him strained relations with Scotland Yard as he pledged hands
on action to cut fear of crime in the capital.

But the Tory candidate was never able to shake off criticism of his decision to
accept the interim chairmanship of Jarvis, the construction company linked to
the Potters Bar rail crash and with London Underground contracts that were seen
as a conflict of interest.

Simon Hughes will have disappointed a number of Liberal Democrats, despite his
party's higher share of the vote in London, after expectations that he could win
the contest following victory in the Brent South by-election last year. His
mayoral campaign never really took off and lacked clear policy ideas that were
distinct from the Mayor's.

Talk of Mr Hughes as a challenger to Charles Kennedy's leadership is now likely
to diminish, although the party has extended the nomination period to allow him
to stand for party president this summer if he chooses. He would face a ballot
against Lembit Opik, the colourful Lib Dem MP.

The biggest gainer in the Assembly elections was the UK Independence Party,
which polled strongly, confounding claims that its support was a protest vote
confined to the European elections. In one borough, Bexley and Bromley, the UKIP
polled 26,703 votes, 16 per cent, to push Labour into fourth place behind the
Tories, who held the seat, with the Lib Dems in second.

The Green Party was squeezed and, despite a spirited campaign, its mayoral
candidate, Darren Johnson, polled just 3 per cent of the votes. Respect, the
anti-war alliance whose figurehead was George Galloway, failed to register
significantly with London's electorate. The prospects of the British National
Party winning an Assembly seat failed to materialise, despite fears raised by
mainstream parties before the campaign.

MAYORAL POLL:

FIRST COUNT.

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 685,541 (36.67%).

Steve Norris (C) 542,423 (29.01%).

Simon Hughes (LD) 284,645 (15.22%).

Frank Maloney (UKIP) 115,665 (6.19%).

Lindsey German (Respect) 67,731 (3.62%).

Julian Leppert (BNP) 58,405 (3.12%).

Darren Johnson (Green) 57,331 (3.07%).

Ram Gidoomal (CPA) 41,696 (2.23%).

Lorna Reid (Ind Work) 9,542 (0.51%).

Dr Tammy Nagalingam (ND) 6,692 (0.36%).

SECOND COUNT:

Distribution of votes of German, Gidoomal, Hughes, Johnson, Leppert, Maloney,
Nagalingam and Reid.

Ken Livingstone (Lab) 828,380

Steve Norris (C) 667,178

Elected: Ken Livingstone.

Electorate: 5,197,647.

Turnout: 1,869,671 (35.97%, up 2.32%).

2000 ELECTION:

FIRST COUNT.

Livingstone (Ind) 667,877; Norris (C) 464,434; Dobson (Lab) 223,884; Kramer (LD)
203,452; Gidoomal (CPA) 42,060; Johnson (Green) 38,121; Newland (BNP) 33,569;
Hockney (UKIP) 16,324; Ben-Nathan (Pro-motor) 9,956; Tanna (Ind Tanna)
9,015;Clements (NLP) 5,470.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

A party without atmosphere in the crystal ball of City Hall

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: Home news; 21

LENGTH: 590 words


TO THE Glass Testicle (otherwise known as City Hall) for the London Mayor count.

The Testicle is a round, glinting palace of a place right on the Thames. The
media start to gather from mid-afternoon. I have been told that security will be
tight.

This means that everyone is given a colourcoded wristband. Journalists get lurid
orange and are escorted to the ninth floor by staff wearing identical turquoise
T-shirts. It is, except for the wristbands, all rather James Bond.

This is the penthouse, although its official name is London's Living Room. We
are surrounded by sky and glass. The balcony runs all the way round and the view
is either spectacular (Tower Bridge and the cigar-shaped Erotic Gherkin
building) or awful (deserted car parks and building sites).

The clouds hang in the air around us like giant pillows. It is very beautiful
but, I cannot help but notice, nowhere near the action. That is taking place in
something called the Central Calculation Room. Only pink and purple wristbands
are allowed in there. If James B were here he would crack the wristband code and
gain access to this holy of holies.

But the place is crawling with security men and I have left at home my fountain
pen that turns into an abseiling rope. Besides, the penthouse is filling up
rapidly. There are lots of people who are very busy doing whatever it is media
types do when there is nothing to do. There are scores of men scurrying round
with huge rolls of tape and miles of cable. Plus there is the obligatory man
with a ladder.

Journalists begin to interview each other. The only politician in the room is
Tessa Jowell, the Culture Secretary. She is dressed for a beach party and, in
between interviews, hangs out making calls on her mobile. None of the candi-
dates is in the building yet.

Conservative Steve Norris, aka Nozza and/or Shagger, is busy somewhere else
though his press office can't say what exactly. Lib Dem Simon Hughes is on a
grand tour of counting stations. And Ken Livingstone is, well, Ken Livingstone.
Of course he's not at City Hall. He's the Mayor!

The only other politician around is a man from the UKIP. His shirt is more lurid
than his wristband. "We are still waiting!" shouts a radio announcer into his
microphone at 6pm. Indeed we are. The latest estimate is that the announcement
is due any time after 7pm. It will take place in the assembly chamber on the
second floor, overlooking the Thames.

I take the swishy lift down but, upon entering the chamber, think that I have
made a wrong turn. There is absolutely no atmosphere. The hundreds of seats are
barely half full and everyone is just sitting there quietly. It is like being in
a dentist's waiting room, though not quite as exciting. The rumour is that Ken
has squeaked through.

At 7.45pm the nine candidates appear and file on to the stage. As a group, they
look entirely untrustworthy, as if they all are going to head off to sell vacuum
cleaners door to door or something. The figures for first and second preference
votes are announced. There is a stirring of interest in the room.

The returning officer declares that Kenneth Livingstone (stone pronounced like
stone, not stun) is the Mayor. There is polite applause that lasted 15 seconds.
He speaks with what may have been enthusiasm though, because his voice is
utterly flat, it is hard to tell. He announces that rumours of the death of the
Conservative Party are "rather overplayed".

I think there would have been more razzmatazz at the dentist's.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

How London voted

SECTION: Home news; 21

LENGTH: 1031 words


BARNET AND CAMDEN:

C hold

Electorate 371,186

Turnout 135,034 (36.38%) % Votes

*B Coleman (C)47,640 35.28

L Anderson (Lab)36,121 26.75

J Simpson (LD)23,603 17.48

M Dunn (Green)11,921 8.83

M Nielsen (UKIP)8,685 6.43

L Wheatley5,150 3.81 (Respect).

H Heliotrope (CPA)1,914 1.42

May 2000: Coleman (C) 41,583 (32.91%); Gordon (Lab) 41,032 (32.47%).

BEXLEY AND BROMLEY:

C hold

Electorate 397,075

Turnout 158,928 (40.02%) % Votes

*B Neill (C)64,246 40.42

D Borrowman (LD)29,992 18.87

H Bennett (UKIP)26,703 16.80

C Mansell (Lab)24,848 15.63

A Garrett (Green)8,069 5.08

M Suit (CPA)3,397 2.14

A Morinan (Respect)1,673 1.05

May 2000: Neill (C) 64,879 (47.21%); Mansell (Lab) 30,320 (22.06%).

BRENT AND HARROW:

C win

Electorate 332,723

Turnout 117,390 (35.28%) % Votes.

B Blackman (C)39,900 33.99

*T Harris (Lab)35,214 30.00

H Hughes (LD)20,782 17.70

D Moss (UKIP)7,199 6.13

S Ali (Green)6,975 5.94

A Harriott (Respect)4,586 3.91

G Macaulay (CPA)2,734 2.33

May 2000: Harris (Lab) 36,675 (37.64%); Blackman (C) 32,295 (33.15%).

CITY AND EAST:

Lab hold

Electorate 437,298

Turnout 130,909 (29.94%) % Votes.

*J Biggs (Lab)38,085 29.09

S Choudhury (C)23,749 18.14

O Rahman (Respect)19,675 15.03

G Burton (LD)18,255 13.94

C Pratt (UKIP)17,997 13.75

T McGrenera 8,687 6.64

(Green).

C Gill (CPA)4,461 3.41.

May 2000: Biggs (Lab) 45,387 (45.94%); Kamall (C) 19,266 (19.5%).

CROYDON AND SUTTON:

C hold

Electorate 376,175

Turnout 135,547 (36.03%) % Votes

*A Pelling (C)52,330 38.61

S Gauge (LD)28,636 21.13

S Fitzsimons (Lab)25,861 19.08

J Feisenberger15,203 11.22

(UKIP).

S Khan (Green)6,175 4.56

D Campanale (CPA)4,234 3.12

W Hussein (Respect)3,108 2.29

May 2000: Pelling (C) 48,421 (40.60%); Gallop (LD) 30,614 (25.67%).

EALING AND HILLINGDON:

C hold

Electorate 397,564

Turnout 139,515 (35.09%) % Votes.

*R Barnes (C)45,230 32.42

G Singh (Lab)34,214 24.52

M Cox (LD)23,440 16.80

D Malindine (UKIP)14,698 10.54

S Edwards (Green)9,395 6.73

D Chaudhry (Ind)5,285 3.79

S Singh Dhillon4,229 3.03

(Respect).

G Hibbs (CPA)3,024 2.17

May 2000: Barnes (C) 44,850 (37.43%); Singh (Lab) 38,038 (31.74%).

ENFIELD AND HARINGEY:

Lab hold

Electorate 343,617

Turnout 116,237 (33.83%) % Votes.

J McCartney (Lab)33,955 29.21

P Forrest (C)32,380 27.86

W Hoban (LD)19,720 16.97

B Hall (UKIP)10,652 9.16

J Forbes (Green)10,310 8.87

S Akgul (Respect)6,855 5.90

P Wolstenholme(CPA)2,365 2.03

May 2000: Gavron (Lab) 34,509 (32.24%); Forrest (C) 31,207 (29.15%).

GREENWICH AND LEWISHAM:

Lab hold

Electorate 329,450

Turnout 108,771 (33.02%) % Votes

*L Duvall (Lab)36,251 33.33

G Bacon (C)22,168 20.38

A Feakes (LD)19,183 17.64

T Reynolds (UKIP)13,454 12.37

S Luxton (Green)11,271 10.36

S Hammond (CPA)3,619 3.33

I Page (Respect)2,825 2.60

May 2000: Duvall (Lab) 40,386 (42.56%); Harris (C) 22,401 (23.61%).

HAVERING AND REDBRIDGE:

C hold

Electorate 350,652

Turnout 129,347 (36.89%) % Votes.

*R Evans (C)44,723 34.58

K Darvill (Lab)28,017 21.66

L Webb (UKIP)18,297 14.15

M Lake (LD)13,646 10.55

M Brown6,925 5.35

(Res London).

A Gunstock (Green)6,009 4.65

A Jafar (Respect)5,185 4.01

J Hawkins (CPA)2,917 2.26

D Stephens2,031 1.57

(Third Way).

P Thorogood (Ind)1,597 1.23

May 2000: Evans (C) 40,919 (37.55%); Robbins (Lab) 32,650 (29.96%).

LAMBETH AND SOUTHWARK:

Lab hold

Electorate 373,293

Turnout 114,332 (30.63%) % Votes.

*V Shawcross (Lab)36,280 31.73

C Pidgeon (LD)30,805 26.94

B Gentry (C)17,378 15.20

S Collins (Green)11,900 10.41

F Maloney (UKIP)8,776 7.68

J Noble (Respect)4,930 4.31

S Lawanson (CPA)3,655 3.20

N Baburam (Ind)608 0.53

May 2000: Shawcross (Lab) 37,985 (37.61%); Facey (LD) 22,492 (22.27%).

MERTON AND WANDSWORTH:

C hold

Electorate 340,792

Turnout 124,379 (36.50%) % Votes.

*E Howlett (C)48,295 38.83

K Smith (Lab)31,417 25.26

A Martin (LD)17,864 14.36

R Vickery (Green)10,163 8.17

A Roberts (UKIP)8,327 6.69

R Maclean(Respect)4,291 3.45

E Greco (CPA)2,782 2.24

R Alagaratnam (Ind)1,240 1.00

May 2000: Howlett (C) 45,308 (39.53%); Cosin (Lab) 32,438 (28.30%).

NORTH EAST:

Lab hold

Electorate 410,719

Turnout 128,665 (31.33%) % Votes.

J Arnold (Lab)37,380 29.05

T Stacy (LD)24,042 18.69

A Boff (C)23,264 18.08

J Nott (Green)16,739 13.01

R Selby (UKIP)11,459 8.91

D Ryan (Respect)11,184 8.69

A Otchie (CPA)3,219 2.50

J Beavis (Com Brit)1,378 1.07

May 2000: Hillier (Lab) 42,459 (36.11%); Fox (LD) 24,856 (21.14%).

SOUTH WEST:

C hold

Electorate 384,450

Turnout 148,010 (38.50%) % Votes.

*T Arbour (C)48,858 33.01

D Doocey (LD)44,791 30.26

S Malhotra (Lab)25,225 17.04

A Hindle (UKIP)12,477 8.43

J Maciejowska9,866 6.67

(Green).

O Waraich (Respect)3,785 2.56

P Flower (CPA)3,008 2.03

May 2000: Arbour (C) 48,248 (35.41%); Pope (LD) 41,189 (30.23%).

WEST CENTRAL:

C hold

Electorate 352,653

Turnout 116,101 (32.92%) % Votes.

A Bray (C)51,884 44.69

A Sodha (Lab)21,940 18.90

F Fruzza (LD)17,478 15.05

J Stephenson10,762 9.27

(Green).

D Hockney (UKIP)7,219 6.22

K Cobham(Respect)4,825 4.16

J McLachlan (CPA)1,993 1.72

May 2000: Bray (C) 47,117 (44.20%); Green (Lab) 28,838 (27.05%).

LONDON-WIDE MEMBERs:

Ms Nicky Gavron (Lab).

Murad Qureshi (Lab).

Ms Lynne Featherstone (LD).

Graham Tope (LD).

Baroness Sally Hamwee (LD).

Mike Tuffrey (LD).

Ms Dee Doocey (LD).

Ms Jenny Jones (Green).

Darren Johnson (Green).

Damian Hockney (UKIP).

Peter Hulme-Cross (UKIP).

KEY:

C: Conservative; Com Brit: Communist Party of Britain; CPA: Christian People's
Alliance; Ind: Independent; Lab: Labour; LD: Liberal Democrat; Res London:
Residents' Association of London; Respect: Respect,the Unity Coalition; UKIP: UK
Independence Party.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Candidates go to court over fiasco of postal ballot

BYLINE: Jill Sherman and Sam Coates

SECTION: Home news; 22

LENGTH: 631 words


AN INDEPENDENT candidate in John Prescott's Hull constituency is mounting the
first legal challenge to Thursday's election results after a postal ballot
fiasco in his ward were he narrowly lost a seat.

Hours later a Liberal Democrat candidate said that he intended to contest his
result in Birmingham amid widespread allegations of electoral fraud involving
postal votes.

The two legal challenges are likely to be the first of many from candidates
claiming that postal voting delays or electoral fraud hurt their chances.

The Liberal Democrats and the Tory party had said that legal challenges would be
mounted after the chaos of printing errors and delays which marked the first
mass compulsory postal ballot experiment. Although turnout was much higher in
postal ballot regions -44 per cent against 37 per cent for the rest of the
country the recriminations are likely to lead to radical changes in the scheme.

John Consindine, the Independent candidate in Hull, was beaten by seven votes by
John Cornworth, a candidate for the UKIP, after five recounts. Mr Cornworth
doubled the size of his vote from previous years to become the first UKIP
councillor.

Mr Consindine claims that adminstrative failures in delivering and collecting
the postal ballot results may have influenced the results in the Derringham ward
in Kingston-upon-Hull.

Chris Jarvis, leader of the Independents in Hull, claimed that more than 200
postal ballot papers had been misdirected from Marfleet ward.

He also claimed that 140 ballot papers went missing between the time they were
received by the council's returning officer and when the results were declared
early on Friday. Mr Jarvis said that some ballot papers had ended up in the
counting rooms of other wards.

"Only three or four days before polling day, postal ballot papers were arriving
in Derringham which were marked for Marfleet. When people rang up the council
they were told they could come in to get a new form or could turn up at one of
the "delivery and assistance" points on polling day. Nobody knows the actual
number of papers delivered in error or how many were rectified," said Mr Jarvis.
"More worrying is that at 5pm yesterday the returning officer claimed that 3,540
papers had been returned. But when the results were announced they fell short by
140."

Mr Consindine now has to file a petition to the Elections Petitions Office at
the Royal Courts of Justice within 21 days. If the judge considers the election
is invalid it could be rerun on a ward, council or regional basis. John
Didrichsen, chief executive of Hull and returning officer, claimed that the
count and declarations were carried out correctly. "Any complaints will be
thoroughly investigated. If there is to be any legal challenge to the way the
election was conducted I am confident we can present a strong case."

Yesterday's declaration in Birmingham was held up for hours because of
allegations of fraud in one ward. A candidate in another ward said before the
full results came in that he would mount a legal challenge over his own contest.

Ayoub Khan, who lost in Aston, said that political practices more usually seen
in Bangladesh and Pakistan had been commonplace in this year's city council
election.

He believes postal voting should not be available in areas with large Asian
communities.

Mr Khan was a candidate standing in Aston, where a Labour councillor, Mohammed
Kazi, was caught going through ballot papers in his car on an industrial estate
at midnight. Mr Kazi, who was interviewed by police, was elected. "There has
been abuse of the new postal system brought in to increase turnout. All it has
done is increase the number of fraudlent votes. It is a kick in the teeth for
democracy," Mr Khan said.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

UKIP shows stamina beyond a single issue

BYLINE: Ronan McGreevy

SECTION: Home news; 24

LENGTH: 207 words


THE UK Independence Party proved it had more than single-issue appeal with a
strong showing in council elections and in the London Mayoral and Assembly
elections.

The party gained its first councillors, in Hull, and in Boulton, Derby, where
the local candidate, Graham Leeming, topped the poll.

UKIP averaged 14 per cent support in the 148 wards where it stood, according to
a BBC survey.

It can expect to do better under the proportional representation for the London
Assembly. The party polled 10 per cent in constituencies across London and could
take two seats under the "top-up" party list system. Its mayoral candidate,
Frank Maloney, the boxing promoter, polled a respectable 11 per cent.

The Greens did not do as well as expected in London, but gained nine seats
across the country. The party polled best in Oxford, winning four seats and
ending Labour's majority on the council. It also won seats in Norwich and
Watford.

It also had a strong showing in Yorkshire, taking extra seats in Bradford and
its first seat in Sheffield.

George Galloway's Respect -The Unity Coalition, which opposed the war in Iraq,
did particularly well in London, where its mayoral candidate picked up 5 per
cent of the vote.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Labour had a shaky first half, but the game isn't over yet

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 25

LENGTH: 731 words


Con THERE is something about elections that makes politicians sound dafter than
usual.

The prize for the most fatuous remark goes to the Labour ministers who said that
the real story was that the Conservatives did not do well enough. Does no one
remember the parable of the mote and the beam?

Second prize in the fatuousness stakes goes to Tory spokesmen who claimed to
have achieved the size of lead over Labour needed to win the next general
election.

Third prize goes to those who tried to manufacture stories last night about Tony
Blair's leadership being on the line on the basis of comments from marginal
Labour figures.

Mid-term results have never been a reliable guide to general elections. Such
elections tell us a lot about the current national mood but are not the same as
choosing a government.

Moreover, even by yesterday evening, we had only part of the story. In a phrase
that will become depressingly familiar over the next three weeks of Euro 2004,
this is a game of two halves. The first half, the local elections, has
undoubtedly been bad for Labour and good for the Tories and the Liberal
Democrats. The second half, tomorrow evening, when the European election results
are declared, could be very different because the Tories may lose ground to the
UK Independence Party.

At half-time, Labour has had its worst result in local elections, winning about
26 per cent of the vote. It is in third place behind the Lib Dems on nearly 30
per cent and the Tories on 38 per cent. But there were big variations, with
parties both losing and gaining seats depending on local factors.

The opposition to Labour, however, was split. In southern England, in the
suburbs and small towns, Labour mainly lost to the Tories, who also gained from
the Lib Dems. In industrial areas and the big cities of the North, such as Leeds
and Newcastle, Labour lost mainly to the Lib Dems. This represents a "pincer"
movement in which Labour faces separate challenges.

Many former Labour supporters stayed at home or, as reflected in the higher
turnout, switched to other parties. Iraq was the favourite explanation yesterday
of aggrieved former council leaders and critics of Mr Blair. Iraq undoubtedly
played a part in some areas and among some Muslims and middle-class
professionals who turned to the Lib Dems. But political disaffection is seldom
for a single reason: the state of public services and disenchantment with a
Government in office for seven years all also have played a part.

This twin challenge is not, however, all bad news for Labour. Its opponents are
divided. There is not one dominant challenger. Just as the Tories benefited
during the Thatcher era, at the 1983 and 1987 elections, from votes split
between Labour and the SDP-Liberal Alliance, so Labour could benefit now from
the division of their anti-vote between the Tories and the Lib Dems.

The Tories did well in the local elections, but not exceptionally. Their 38 per
cent share of the vote is the same as the party won in a similar set of
elections in 2000, and is much less than Labour won in the mid-1990s. The Tory
emphasis on its lead over Labour is misleading unless you, wrongly, assume that
these results will be reproduced in a general election.

Michael Howard's achievement is to motivate his activists, despite the UKIP
insurgency, and to consolidate the party's local council base. This is
necessary, but is still only a first step.

The Lib Dems have not suffered from highlighting their opposition to the Iraq
war.

Despite losses to the Tories in the South, notably in control of councils such
as Eastbourne and Cheltenham, the Lib Dems made big gains overall, mainly from
Labour. So while some existing Lib Dem MPs may be worried about a revived Tory
threat, the party will now have greater hopes of gaining some Labour-held seats
at Westminster.

This picture will undoubtedly change by Monday, however, after the European
election results. The Tories may be bickering over gains by the UKIP, the Lib
Dems may not be quite so buoyant as last night and Labour may be less depressed.

What matters is less the details of seats won and lost than how the politicians
react. The dramas of this weekend will quickly be forgotten. The real test for
Mr Howard and Mr Blair will be calming their parties and setting out their
pre-election strategies.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Ballot box

SECTION: Home news; 26

LENGTH: 3077 words


KEY:

BNP: British National Party

C: Conservative

Green: Green Party

Ind: Independent and Others

Ind KHHC: Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern

Lab: Labour

LD: Liberal Democrat

Lib: Liberal

Meb Ker: Mebyon Kernow

PC: Plaid Cymru

R: Ratepayers or Residents

Soc: All Socialist Alliance

Soc: Alt Socialist Alternative

UKIP: United Kingdom Independence Party

METROPOLITAN DISTRICTS:

BARNSLEY: Lab hold

LD down 1, Ind up 11, Lab down 13.

New council:Ind 22, LD 3, Lab 33, C 5.

BOLTON: NOC no change

Lab down 7, LD up 7.

New council: C 19, Lab 20, LD 21.

BRADFORD: NOC no change

Ind down 1, BNP up 4, Green up 1, LD up 1, Lab down 8, C up 3.

New council: LD 15, Lab 29, C 38, BNP 4, Green 4.

BURY: Lab hold

LD up 1, C up 3, Lab down 1.

New council: C 19, Lab 27, LD 5.

CALDERDALE:NOC no change

Ind up 2, Lab down 1, LD down 1, C down 3.

New council: LD 15, C 21, BNP 3, Ind 3, Lab 9.

COVENTRY: NOC no change

Ind down 2, Soc Alt down 1, LD up 1, Lab down 2, C up 4.

New council: Soc Alt 2, Lab 22, C 27, LD 3.

DONCASTER: Lab lose to NOC

C up 2, LD up 5, Ind up 11, Lab down 18.

New council: LD 13, Ind 14, Lab 27, C 9.

DUDLEY: C gain from NOC

BNP down 1, Ind down 1, LD down 3, Lab down 4, C up 9.

New council: Lab 25, C 40, LD 7.

GATESHEAD: Lab hold

LD up 3, Lab down 3.

New council: Lib 1, LD 22, Lab 43.

KIRKLEES: NOC no change

Lib down 1, Ind up 1, Lab down 4, C up 6, LD down 5.

New council: BNP 1, Ind 1, Lab 17, C 22, LD 25, Green 3.

KNOWSLEY: Lab hold

Lab down 3.

New council: LD 11, Lab 52.

LEEDS: Lab lose to NOC

Ind up 4, C up 2, LD up 6, Lab down 12.

New council: C 24, LD 26, Green 3, Lab 40, Ind 6.

LIVERPOOL: LD hold

Ind down 3, Lab down 3, LD down 3.

New council: Lab 27, Lib 3, LD 60.

MANCHESTER: Lab hold

LD up 11, Lab down 14.

New council: Green 1, LD 39, Lab 56.

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE:LD gain from Lab

Lab down 24, LD up 24.

New council: Lab 30, LD 48.

NORTH TYNESIDE:NOC no change

Ind down 2, LD down 1, Lab down 3, C up 6.

New council: Lab 26, C 27, LD 7.

OLDHAM: Lab hold

LD up 1, Lab down 1.

New council: Ind 1, C 2, LD 25, Lab 32.

ROCHDALE:NOC no change

C up 3, Lab down 6, LD up 3.

New council: C 11, Lab 24, LD 25.

ROTHERHAM: Lab hold

C gain 3, Lab lose 6.

New council: Ind 3, Lab 53, C 7.

ST HELENS: Lab lose to NOC

LD up 3, Lab down 9.

New council: LD 18, Lab 24, C 6.

SALFORD: Lab hold

Ind down 1, C up 5, LD up 3, Lab down 7.

New council: Lab 44, C 8, LD 8.

SANDWELL: Lab hold

BNP down 1, C up 4, Lab down 3.

New council: BNP 1, C 13, Lab 52, LD 6.

SEFTON: NOC no change

Ind down 3, C up 1, Lab down 3, LD up 5.

New council: C 19, Lab 20, LD 27.

SHEFFIELD: Lab hold

Ind down 1, Green up 1,C up 1, LD up 1, Lab down 5.

New council: Green 1, C 2, LD 37, Lab 44.

SOLIHULL: C hold

Ind up 1, Lab down 5, LD up 5, C down 1.

New council: Ind 1, LD 15, C 27, Lab 8.

SOUTH TYNESIDE:Lab hold

C up 2, LD down 1, Ind up 7, Lab down 14.

New council: Ind 12, C 3, Lab 35, LD 4.

STOCKPORT: LD hold

Ind down 1, C up 2, Lab down 2, LD up 1.

New council: C 10, Lab 14, LD 35, Ind 4.

SUNDERLAND: Lab hold

Lib down 1, C up 3, Lab down 2.

New council: C 12, LD 2, Lab 61.

TAMESIDE:Lab hold

LD up 1, C up 1, Lab down 2.

New council: Ind 2, LD 3, Lab 45, C 7.

TRAFFORD: C gain from NOC

LD down 1, Lab down 11, C up 12.

New council: Lab 20, LD 3, C 40.

WAKEFIELD: Lab hold

Ind up 3, C up 4, Lab down 7.

New council: C 11, LD 3, Lab 43, Ind 6.

WIGAN: Lab hold

C up 4, LD up 4, Ind up 13, Lab down 18.

New council: Ind 18, Lab 42, C 7, LD 8.

WIRRAL: NOC no change

Ind down 1, LD up 3, C down 2.

New council: LD 19, C 21, Lab 26.

WOLVERHAMPTON: Lab hold

LD down 3, C down 5,Lab up 8.

New council:C 16, LD 3, Lab 41.

ENGLISH UNITARIES:

BLACKBURN WITH DARWEN: Lab hold Ind down 2, LD up 4, C up 2, Lab down 2. New
council: LD 12, C 17, Vacant 2, Lab 33.

DERBY: NOC no change

UKIP 1, C 3, LD 5, Lab 9. Ind lose 1, UKIP gain 1, C lose 1, LD gain 1.

New council: UKIP 1, Vacant 1, C 11, LD 14, Lab 24.

HALTON: Lab hold

C up 5, LD up 7, Lab down 12.

New council: LD 14, Lab 35, C 7.

HARTLEPOOL: Lab gain from NOC

C down 2, LD down 2, Lab up 4.

New council: Lab 25, C 4, Ind 9, LD 9.

KINGSTON UPON HULL: NOC no change

C 1, UKIP 1, LD 10, Lab 8. Ind lose 3, UKIP gain 1, LD gain 2.

New council: UKIP 1, C 2, LD 24, Lab 27, Ind 5.

MILTON KEYNES: LD hold

C 2, Lab 7, LD 8.

New council: Ind 1, Lab 16, LD 27, C 7.

NORTH EAST LINCOLNSHIRE:NOC no change

Ind 1, C 3, Lab 3, LD 5. C lose 1, LD gain 1.

New council: C 15, LD 16, Ind 4, Lab 7.

PETERBOROUGH: C gain from NOC

Lib up 1, Lab down 10, C up 9.

New council: C 33, LD 4, Lib 4, Lab 7, Ind 9.

PLYMOUTH: Lab hold

LD 1, Lab 11, C 7. C gain 1, Lab lose 1.

New council: Ind 1, C 19, LD 2, Lab 35.

PORTSMOUTH: NOC no change

Lab 1, C 5, LD 8. Lab lose 4, LD gain 4.

New council: C 15, LD 20, Lab 7.

READING: Lab hold

LD down 1, C up 2. New council: Lab 35, LD 5, C 6.

SLOUGH: Lab lose to NOC R up 3, Ind up 1, LD up 5, C up 2, Lab down 11.

New council: Lab 15, Lib 3, R 3, Ind 6, LD 6, C 8.

SOUTHAMPTON: NOC no change C 5, LD 5, Lab 6. C gain 2, Lab lose 2. New council:

C 14, Lab 15, LD 19.

SOUTHEND-ON-SEA: C hold Ind 1, C 12, LD 2, Lab 2. Ind gain 1, Lab lose 1, LD
lose 1, C gain 1. New council: Ind 2, C 33, LD 7, Lab 9.

STOKE-ON-TRENT: Lab gain from NOC BNP 1, LD 1, Lab 13, C 2, Ind 2. LD lose 1,
Ind lose 5, Lab gain 6. New council: Vacant 1, Ind 13, BNP 2, Lab 34, C 5, LD 5.

SWINDON: C gain from NOC LD 1, C 14, Lab 5. LD lose 1, Lab lose 3, C gain 4. New
council: Lab 19, C 33, LD 7.

THURROCK: C gain from Lab BNP down 1, LD down 1, Ind down 2, Lab down 14, C up
18. New council:

Lab 19, Ind 2, C 28.

WARRINGTON: Lab hold Ind down 2, C up 2, LD up 5, Lab down 8. New council: LD
21, Lab 30, C 6.

WOKINGHAM: C hold Lab down 1, LD down 5, C up 6.

New council: LD 15, C 39.

NON-METROPOLITAN DISTRICTS ADUR: C hold LD up 1, Lab down 6, Ind down 2, C down
3. New council: LD 1, Ind 2, Lab 2, C 24.

AMBER VALLEY: C hold Lab 7, C 8. Lab gain 1, C lose 1. New council: Lab 21, C
24.

BARROW-IN-FURNESS: Lab hold C 4, Lab 8. Ind lose 1, C lose 2, Lab gain 3. New
council: C 12, Ind 2, Lab 24.

BASILDON: C hold LD 1, Lab 4, C 9. Ind lose 2, C gain 2. New council:

Lab 14, C 25, LD 3.

BASINGSTOKE AND DEANE:NOC no change C 11, Ind 2, Lab 4, LD 5. Lab lose 3, LD
gain 1, C gain 2. New council: Lab 12, LD 16, C 28, Ind 4.

BASSETLAW: Lab lose to NOC C 10, Ind 3, Lab 3. Lab lose 7, Ind gain 3, C gain 4.
New council: LD 1, Lab 18, C 24, Ind 5.

BEDFORD: NOC no change Ind 2, C 5, LD 5, Lab 6. Ind lose 3, C lose 1, LD gain 1,
Lab gain 3. New council: Ind 10, LD 13, Lab 15, C 16.

BRENTWOOD: C gain from NOC LD 1, Lab 1, C 11. LD lose 5, C gain 5. New council:

LD 13, C 21, Lab 3.

BROADLAND: C hold Lab down 3, Ind down 2, LD down 1, C up 4. New council: LD 11,
C 31, Ind 5.

BROXBOURNE:C hold C 12. New council: BNP 1, Ind 1, Lab 2, C 34.

BURNLEY: Lab lose to NOC BNP 1, C 2, LD 5, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, C gain 1, LD gain
2, Lab lose 2. New council: LD 11, Lab 21, Ind 3, C 4, BNP 6.

CAMBRIDGE:LD hold C down 1, Lab down 1, LD up 2. New council: C 1, Lab 13, LD
28.

CANNOCK CHASE:NOC no change C 4, LD 5, Lab 5. Ind lose 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 2,
LD gain 2. New council: C 10, LD 14, Lab 17.

CARLISLE:NOC no change Ind 1, LD 3, C 5, Lab 8. LD gain 2, C lose 4, Lab gain 2.
New council: Ind 1, C 20, Lab 24, LD 7.

CASTLE POINT: C hold R 5, C 8. Lab lose 1, R gain 5, C lose 4. New council:

Ind 1, C 35, R 5.

CHELTENHAM: LD lose to NOC Lab 1, Ind 3, LD 7, C 9. Ind gain 1, LD lose 3, C
gain 2. New council: C 15, LD 18, Lab 2, Ind 5.

CHERWELL: C hold C 15, Lab 2. Lab lose 2, C gain 2. New council:

Lab 10, C 36, LD 4.

CHESTER: NOC no change Lab 3, C 8, LD 9. Lab lose 3, C gain 2, LD gain 1.

New council: Ind 1, Lab 17, C 20, LD 22.

CHORLEY: NOC no change LD 1, Ind 2, C 6, Lab 6. LD lose 1, C gain 2, Lab lose 1.
New council: C 20, Lab 21, Ind 3, LD 3.

COLCHESTER: NOC no change Ind 1, C 11, Lab 2, LD 6. Ind lose 3, Lab gain 1, LD
lose 2, C gain 4. New council:

LD 23, C 28, Ind 3, Lab 6.

CONGLETON: C hold Ind 2, LD 6, C 8. Ind lose 2, LD gain 2. New council: LD 14,
Lab 2, C 25, Ind 7.

CRAVEN: NOC no change Ind 2, LD 3, C 6. LD lose 2, C gain 2. New council: Ind
11, C 13, LD 6.

CRAWLEY: Lab hold C up 8, Lab down 3. New council: C 16, Lab 19, LD 2.

CREWE AND NANTWICH: NOC no change Ind 1, LD 3, C 7, Lab 8. Ind lose 2, LD gain
1, C gain 1. New council: C 22, Lab 22, Ind 6, LD 6.

DAVENTRY: C hold LD 1, Lab 1, C 10. LD gain 1, Lab lose 1. New council:

LD 1, Lab 3, C 34.

EASTBOURNE:C gain from LD C 5, LD 5. C gain 1, LD lose 1. New council: LD 13, C
14.

EASTLEIGH: LD hold LD 12, C 3. Lab lose 1, C lose 1, LD gain 2. New council: Lab
3, LD 32, C 9.

ELLESMERE PORT AND NESTON: Lab hold LD 1, C 5, Lab 9. C gain 2, Lab lose 2. New
council:

C 12, LD 2, Lab 29.

ELMBRIDGE:R hold LD 3, C 8, R 9. New council: C 21, R 31, LD 8.

EPPING FOREST: NOC no change C 10, BNP 3, LD 5, R 6. Lab lose 4, Ind lose 1, BNP
gain 3, R gain 3, C lose 1.

New council: LD 15, C 23, BNP 3, Ind 4, Lab 4, R 9.

EXETER: NOC no change Lib 1, C 2, LD 4, Lab 8. C lose 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 1.
New council: LD 12, Lab 19, Lib 4, C 5.

FAREHAM: C hold C 12, LD 3. Ind lose 1, LD lose 3, C gain 4.

New council: C 22, LD 9.

GLOUCESTER: NOC no change Lab 2, C 4, LD 4. Lab lose 3, C gain 2, LD gain 1. New
council: LD 12, C 16, Lab 8.

GOSPORT: NOC no change C 10, LD 2, Lab 5. Ind lose 1, LD lose 2, Lab lose 1, C
gain 4. New council:

Lab 11, C 15, Ind 2, LD 6.

GREAT YARMOUTH: C hold Lab down 9.

New council: Lab 13, C 26.

HARLOW: NOC no change LD 2, C 4, Lab 5. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, Lab gain 2. New
council: Lab 11, C 13, LD 9.

HARROGATE:C hold C 13, LD 3. New council:

LD 21, C 29, Ind 4.

HART: C hold R 2, C 5, LD 5. Ind lose 1, R gain 2, LD gain 1, C lose 2. New
council: LD 12, C 18, R 2, Ind 3.

HASTINGS: Lab lose to NOC LD 3, Lab 5, C 8. LD gain 3, Lab lose 6, C gain 3. New
council: C 13, Lab 15, LD 4.

HAVANT: C hold C 12, LD 2, Lab 2. Lab lose 2, LD lose 2, C gain 4. New council:
C 27, LD 5, Lab 6.

HERTSMERE:C hold Lab 1, C 10, LD 2. Lab lose 1, LD gain 1. New council:

C 25, LD 7, Lab 7.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE:C hold Ind down 1, LD down 3, C up 3. New council: LD 10, Ind 2,
C 40.

HYNDBURN: C hold Lab 4, C 8. Lab lose 2, C gain 2. New council:

Lab 15, C 20.

IPSWICH: Lab lose to NOC LD 3, Lab 5, C 9. LD gain 2, Lab lose 8, C gain 6. New
council: C 18, Lab 23, LD 7.

LINCOLN: Lab hold LD 1, C 5, Lab 5. LD gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 1. New
council: LD 1, Lab 25, C 7.

MACCLESFIELD: C hold Ind 1, R 1, C 14, LD 4.

Ind gain 1, LD lose 1.

New council: LD 14, Ind 2, R 3, C 35, Lab 6.

MAIDSTONE:NOC no change Ind 1, Lab 3, LD 6, C 9. Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain
2. New council: LD 20, C 23, Ind 3, Lab 9.

MOLE VALLEY: NOC no change Ind 2, LD 5, C 6. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, LD gain 1,
C gain 1. New council:

LD 17, C 19, Ind 5.

NEWCASTLE-UNDER-LYME:Lab gain from NOC Lab 11, C 6, LD 6. LD lose 4, C gain 2,
Lab gain 2.

New council: Ind 1, C 14, LD 14, Lab 31.

NORTH HERTFORDSHIRE:

C hold LD 1, C 12, Lab 4. LD gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 1. New council: Lab 14,
C 28, LD 7.

NORWICH: LD lose to NOC Ind down 1, Green up 3, Lab up 1, LD down 12.

New council: C 1, Lab 15, LD 18, Green 5.

NUNEATON AND BEDWORTH: Lab hold LD 1, C 7, Lab 9. LD gain 1, C gain 3, Lab lose
4. New council: LD 1, C 11, Lab 22.

OXFORD: Lab lose to NOC LD 11, Ind 3, Green 5, Lab 6. Ind gain 2, Green gain 4,
Lab lose 9, LD gain 3.

New council: LD 18, Lab 20, Ind 3, Green 7.

PENDLE:LD gain from NOC LD 11, Lab 2, C 3. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 5, LD gain 6.
New council: C 11, LD 30, Lab 8.

PENWITH: NOC no change Meb Ker down 1, Lab down 1, Ind down 2, C up 2, LD up 3.
New council: Lab 1, C 12, LD 14, Ind 8.

PRESTON: NOC no change Ind 1, LD 4, C 7, Lab 7.

Lab lose 1, C gain 1.

New council: Soc All 1, LD 10, C 18, Lab 24, Ind 4.

PURBECK: C hold LD 2, C 6. New council:

C 13, Ind 3, LD 8.

REDDITCH: Lab gain from NOC LD down 2, C down 4, Lab up 6. New council: C 10,
Lab 16, LD 3.

REIGATE AND BANSTEAD: C hold C 15, R 2. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, LD lose 2, C
gain 4. New council: Lab 3, C 37, LD 5, R 6.

ROCHFORD: C hold C 14. Lab lose 2, C gain 2. New council: Ind 1, Lab 1, R 1, C
32, LD 4.

ROSSENDALE:C gain from NOC C 12. Lab lose 8, C gain 8. New council: Ind 1, LD 1,
C 25, Lab 9.

RUGBY: NOC no change Lab 3, LD 4, C 9. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 3.

New council: LD 10, Lab 14, C 21, Ind 3.

RUNNYMEDE:C hold C 12, Ind 2. Lab lose 1, C gain 1. New council:

Lab 3, C 33, Ind 6.

RUSHMOOR: C hold Lab 1, LD 5, C 8. Lab lose 1, LD gain 2, C lose 1. New council:
Ind 1, LD 12, C 24, Lab 5.

ST ALBANS: NOC no change Ind 1, Lab 3, C 5, LD 9. Lab lose 2, C lose 3, LD gain
5. New council: Ind 1, Lab 11, C 17, LD 29.

SHREWSBURY AND ATCHAM: C hold LD 1, Lab 4, C 7. Lab gain 1, C lose 1. New
council: Vacant 1, Lab 10, C 20, Ind 3, LD 6.

SOUTH BEDFORDSHIRE:

C hold Lab 1, C 13, LD 3. Lab lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain 3. New council: LD 12, C
34, Lab 4.

SOUTH CAMBRIDGESHIRE:NOC no change UKIP down 1, Lab down 2, Ind up 2, LD up 3.
New council: Ind 13, LD 19, Lab 2, C 23.

SOUTH LAKELAND: NOC no change Ind 1, Lab 2, LD 6, C 9. Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, C
gain 2. New council: Ind 2, C 20, LD 22, Lab 8.

STEVENAGE - Lab hold C 1, Lab 10, LD 2. LD gain 1, Lab lose 1. New council:

C 3, Lab 32, LD 4.

STRATFORD-ON-AVON: C hold Ind 1, C 14, LD 4. Lab lose 1, LD lose 2, C gain 3.
New council: LD 20, Ind 3, C 30.

STROUD: C hold Green 1, C 11, LD 2, Lab 4. New council: Lab 11, C 27, Ind 3,
Green 4, LD 6.

SWALE:C hold Lab 3, LD 4, C 9. LD lose 1, C gain 1. New council:

LD 10, Lab 11, C 26.

TAMWORTH: C gain from Lab Lab 2, C 8. Lab lose 5, C gain 5. New council: Ind 1,
Lab 13, C 16.

TANDRIDGE:C hold Lab 1, C 10, LD 4. Lab lose 1, LD gain 1. New council: Ind 1,
LD 11, Lab 2, C 28.

THREE RIVERS: LD hold LD 10, Lab 3, C 4. C lose 2, LD gain 2. New council:

C 12, LD 29, Lab 7.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS: C hold C 12, LD 4. Lab lose 1, C gain 1. New council:

Lab 1, LD 12, C 35.

WATFORD: LD hold C 1, Green 1, LD 10. Lab lose 4, C lose 3, Green gain 1, LD
gain 6. New council: Green 2, LD 26, C 4, Lab 4.

WAVENEY: NOC no change LD 1, C 10, Ind 2, Lab 4. Ind gain 1, Lab lose 3, C gain
2. New council: Lab 14, C 24, LD 3, Ind 7.

WELWYN HATFIELD: C hold C 11, LD 2, Lab 4. LD gain 2, Lab lose 5, C gain 3. New
council: Lab 15, LD 2, C 31.

WEST LANCASHIRE:C hold C 10, Lab 8. Lab lose 1, C gain 1. New council:

Lab 25, C 29.

WEST LINDSEY: C gain from NOC C 4, LD 9. Ind lose 2, C gain 1, LD gain 1. New
council: LD 16, C 19, Ind 2.

WEST OXFORDSHIRE:C hold Ind 1, C 12, LD 4. Lab lose 1, LD gain 1. New council:

Lab 1, LD 13, C 29, Ind 6.

WEYMOUTH AND PORTLAND: NOC no change C up 2, Lab down 4, LD up 3. New council:
LD 14, Ind 5, C 8, Lab 9.

WINCHESTER: LD lose to NOC LD 11, Ind 2, C 6. Lab lose 1, C gain 4, LD lose 3.
New council: C 22, LD 26, Lab 4, Ind 5.

WOKING: NOC no change C 5, LD 8. Lab lose 2, Ind lose 1, LD gain 3. New council:
LD 15, C 17, Lab 4.

WORCESTER: C hold LD up 1, Ind down 1, C down 1. New council:

Lab 10, C 18, LD 3, Ind 4.

WORTHING: C gain from NOC LD down 7, C up 8.

New council: LD 11, C 26.

WYRE FOREST: NOC no change Ind down 1, Ind KHHC down 8, Lib up 1, C up 8. New
council: Ind 1, C 19, LD 2, Lab 4, Ind KHHC 8, Lib 8.

WELSH UNITARIES BLAENAU GWENT: Lab hold R lose 3, LD lose 1, Ind gain 5, Lab
lose 1. New council: LD 3, Lab 31, Ind 8.

BRIDGEND: Lab lose to NOC C gain 7, Ind gain 4, LD gain 6, Lab lose 17. New
council: PC 1, Vacant 1, Ind 10, LD 13, Lab 21, C 8.

CAERPHILLY: Lab gain from PC LD lose 1, Ind gain 2, PC lose 12, Lab gain 11. New
council: PC 26, Lab 39, Ind 8.

CARDIFF: Lab lose to NOC Ind lose 2, PC gain 1, C gain 7, Lab lose 21, LD gain
15. New council: C 12, Lab 27, PC 3, LD 33.

CARMARTHENSHIRE:NOC no change LD lose 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 3, Ind gain 3. New
council: C 1, PC 16, Lab 25, Ind 32.

CEREDIGION: Ind lose to NOC LD up 1, Ind down 7, PC up 4. New council:

Lab 1, Ind 16, PC 16, LD 9.

CONWY: NOC no change LD lose 7, PC gain 3, C gain 7, Lab lose 7, Ind gain 4. New
council: Vacant 1, C 12, Lab 12, Ind 19, LD 6, PC 9.

FLINTSHIRE:Lab hold Green lose 1, PC lose 1, C gain 3, LD gain 3, Ind gain 1,
Lab lose 5. New council: PC 1, LD 10, Ind 18, Lab 37, C 4.

GWYNEDD: PC hold LD up 1, Lab down 2, Ind down 5, PC down 2.

New council: Lab 10, Ind 17, PC 41, LD 7.

ISLE OF ANGLESEY: Ind hold Lab gain 1, LD gain 1, C gain 1, PC gain 1, Ind lose
4.

New council: LD 1, Lab 1, C 2, Ind 28, PC 8.

MERTHYR TYDFIL: Lab gain from NOC PC lose 3, Ind gain 2, Lab gain 1. New
council:

Ind 16, Lab 17.

MONMOUTHSHIRE:C gain from NOC PC up 2, LD up 2, Ind up 2, Lab down 11, C up 6.

New council: PC 2, C 24, LD 4, Ind 5, Lab 8.

NEATH PORT TALBOT: Lab hold R gain 4, Lab lose 4.

New council: PC 10, LD 2, Lab 36, Ind 7, R 9.

NEWPORT: Lab hold Ind down 1, LD up 5, C up 5, Lab down 6. New council: Ind 1,
PC 1, C 11, Lab 31, LD 6.

PEMBROKESHIRE:Ind hold LD lose 2, PC gain 3, Lab lose 3, Ind gain 2.

New council: Lab 12, LD 3, Ind 40, PC 5.

POWYS: Ind hold Lab lose 2, LD gain 6, Ind lose 4. New council: LD 16, Lab 4,
Ind 53.

RHONDDA, CYNON, TAFF: Lab gain from PC LD lose 2, Ind lose 4, PC lose 25, Lab
gain 31. New council: PC 13, LD 2, Ind 3, Lab 57.

SWANSEA: Lab lose to NOC PC gain 2, Ind gain 3, LD gain 8, Lab lose 13. New
council: Ind 12, LD 19, Lab 32, C 4, PC 5.

TORFAEN: Lab hold Ind up 5, Lab down 5.

New council: C 1, LD 2, Lab 34, Ind 7.

VALE OF GLAMORGAN: NOC no change LD down 1, Ind up 3, PC up 2, Lab down 2, C
down 2.

New council: Lab 16, C 20, Ind 3, PC 8.

WREXHAM: NOC no change C lose 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 4, Ind gain 3. New council:
LD 10, Lab 19, Ind 20, C 3.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

We all have the right to hitch a ride on the democracy bus

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: Features; 30

LENGTH: 1547 words


I HAVE just heard a new use of the word "democracy" in politics.

It was during the small hours of yesterday morning. The broadcaster Matthew
Bannister was chairing a small poll-watching panel for BBC Radio 5 Live, from
Derby, and I was one of his guests. As we waited for results, Bannister filled
in the time by going over to representatives of the various parties across the
nation for thoughts and news.

I took no note of the name of the Liberal Democrat spokesman whom Bannister
asked about the prospects for the British National Party, but the answer
astonished me.

He lamented the possibility that the BNP might win anything as "a bad night for
democracy" if it were to happen. Everyone round my table, including a
Conservative European candidate and a Labour council candidate, nodded caringly.

"A bad night for democracy." A bad night, that is, if in an election held by
secret ballot on a universal adult suffrage, a small party advancing opinions
held by many but with which the major parties disagreed, were to gather votes? A
bad night for immigrants, certainly; a bad night for liberal values, too; but a
bad night for democracy?

What then would be a good night for democracy? How are Labour, the Tories and
the Liberal Democrats using the word "democracy" if when they see the number of
voters holding an opinion translated into the election of candidates who share
that opinion, they think democracy is under threat?

What is under threat is the received wisdom of the political class, which
increasingly represents (as Peter Oborne argues in The Spectator) a professional
priesthood affronted by a challenge to its monopoly.

Nor was this Lib-Dem spokesman alone in drawing up his skirts against what
sounded like an infestation of rats. One caller suggested that if increasing the
voter-turnout by new voting systems resulted in small "single-issue" parties
doing better, then this attempt to make democracy work better had "backfired".

Down in the 5 Live studio in London, a Labour spokesman remarked that there
wasn't much that he and his Tory counterpart would agree upon in the long hours
ahead, but both would regard the rise of small extremist parties such as the BNP
as a tragedy.

There is one circumstance in which the election of a party could fairly be
called a bad night for democracy. If that party was itself opposed to holding
further free elections then electing it might, perversely, be the end to
democracy. But the BNP proposes no such thing. It has administrative proposals
for immigration and emigration. I disagree with it. But no theory of democracy
of which I have ever heard disqualifies others from taking a different view.

Later I listened to Liberal Democrats fulminating against the Green Party as
though any advances the Greens might make were a kind of mischievous
impertinence, contrary to orderly public administration. And everywhere we hear
Conservatives talking about the United Kingdom Independence Party as if it were
an impostor to the democratic process and somehow cheating: stealing support
which should rightly go to Tory candidates.

When I woke up later that morning it was to hear Radio 5 Live still
broadcasting, the results thus far being chewed over by the Tory spokesman,
Caroline Spelman, and the Labour Minister, Hazel Blears. Both women would, from
time to time, desist from bickering among themselves to murmur a shared and
pious concern about parties like the BNP.

Do you not get the impression, as I do, that the three largest parties in
England regard the representation of the people as a kind of closed shop: theirs
by right? We hear all three of our mainstream parties openly and without shame
discussing what system of voting, weighing votes, funding political parties and
requiring deposits from candidates, will be best calculated to prevent the rise
of small or "extremist" parties.

Such calculations are disgraceful. If a belief runs strongly among the public at
large then a democratic politician should either adopt it, or make his case
against it honestly and with what force he can muster. To treat the new force as
though it were some kind of infection to the body politic, to be cast out and
isolated, is tantamount to treating its supporters -our countrymen, possibly
millions of them -as though they too were pariahs, beyond the reach of
reasonable argument.

Mainstream politicians are scared of implying this, so instead they insist that
the errant public have been "misled"; they talk about the small party as though
it were a poison against which ordinary people's minds are defenceless once it
takes hold. And, of course, they blame the tabloid press, taking comfort in the
notion that millions of basically decent voters have been possessed by what the
Marxists used to call a "false consciousness", and tricked into thinking they
think things which in truth they don't think at all.

Anything, in short, but face up to the genuine popularity of the hated idea. I
have liberal friends who now wail that the Conservative Party has been too weak
to contain all those racists and Europhobes among the electorate who used to
vote Conservative. My friends reproach my party for failing in our supposed
constitutional duty to capture the whole of Britain's Right and soak up,
neutralise and, so far as possible, deodorise its nasty bits. Now -horror of
horrors -we Tories have let these dreadful voters escape and form parties of
their own, taking votes from Labour and the Liberal Democrats too.

Over the past quarter-century, three big issues have been screaming at our
mainstream parties from outside the political stockade. As it happens I am
personally sceptical about all three but I cannot block out the screams. One is
race and immigration: the unwelcome influx into Britain of large numbers of
people from cultures which seem strange to us. Another is Europe: a fear and
dislike of being "taken over" by an alliance of continental powers speaking
strange tongues.

The third is the environment: a feeling that our country and planet are being
poisoned and disfigured by greedy businessmen and ignorant materialism. The
first is associated with the BNP, the second with the UKIP and the third with
the Green Party.

Place these three together and, though two have usually been associated with the
Right and the third with the Left, you can see a common thread. All are
territorial, proprietorial, and fearful of what (consciously or unconsciously)
is felt to be contamination. The first and the last are bound up with a fear of
overcrowding.

I suspect these anxieties tap into something very deep in the psyche of a
densely populated community and nation. When, as Leader of the Opposition,
Margaret Thatcher, for whom I worked, used the word "swamped" she received from
the public 10,000 letters in just a few days. David Blunkett has encountered a
similar response.

But, murky and mysterious as the origins of some of this anxiety and anger may
be, it surfaces in a handful of huge political questions: real issues on which
real decisions need to be taken. The three small parties I cite may be
simplistic in their answers, but it is irresponsible of the mainstream parties
to play the questions down or pretend they have been answered already.

Pollution, the loss of green land and worry about threats to health from
"adulterated" air, soil, food and drink, have thrust themselves into the
consciousness of Cabinets ever since Mrs Thatcher's Government was startled by a
sudden rise in the Green vote. I think the Green Party has done a service to
democracy by this, and does not at all assume that our major parties would have
thought or acted on these things without prompting.

Immigration is an issue which has still not been resolved. Immigration brings
much that is good, but to many of its inhabitants Britain feels overcrowded. It
is just pointless for our political class to think these dilemmas can be waved
away. I dislike much that the BNP says but its existence is a symptom, not a
cause, and points us to an unresolved anxiety we must face.

Europe poses one of the biggest questions ahead of us. We do not have to be part
of the EU; it is not divinely ordained; we could undoubtedly leave. The EU does
not know where it is going and we do not know whether or how far we are going
with it. My own belief is that we should string along for the time being, but
there is nothing mad about thinking we should not. I fail to see how a party
which places one solution to these uncertainties at the centre of its manifesto
can be dismissed as either pointless or mischievous.

To hear some of my friends in politics and political journalism talk, you would
think that democracy is a kind of jolly charabanc on to which all reasonable
citizens have clambered, even if we may argue about the route.

No, my friends, democracy is more than the bus. Democracy is also the ditch, the
pothole, the rock in the road. Democracy punctures the tyres, barks at the
wheels, may throw itself under the wheels. Democracy is the highwayman, the
hitch hiker, the burst radiator. Democracy is not just the journey: it is also,
unless you are careful, the crash.

Is Matthew Parris right? comment@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

Bad and worse

SECTION: Features; 31

LENGTH: 630 words


David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, pronounced himself "mortified" by the
results of the local elections in England. His candour is always welcome, but
his binary bluntness misses the more subtle messages sent by voters. Instant
analysis of these contests invariably leads to unduly sweeping conclusions. In
this case, there is the assumption that electors in Newcastle or Trafford
switched sides because of events in Baghdad or Basra. There are a host of
reasons why individual electors or particular parts of the country might have
moved from Labour either to the Conservatives, or from the Liberal Democrats to
the Conservatives. This was not a one-size-fits-all election.

Nor was it quite as bad a result as it might sound. The BBC's analysis rather
dramatically concluded that Labour would have won only 26 per cent of the
overall vote if every part of Britain had conducted local elections on Thursday.
This would have placed the party third behind the Conservatives (38 per cent)
and the Liberal Democrats (30 per cent). This is a remarkably poor outcome for
the Prime Minister. When compared with the 2001 general election, it looks
appalling. But when contrasted with other recent local contests, a more rounded
picture emerges.

In 2000, for example, the Tories won 38 per cent and Labour a modest 29 per
cent.

The equivalent picture last year was that the Conservatives secured 34 per cent
of this theoretical poll while both Labour and the Liberal Democrats were on 30
per cent.

The shift compared with either 2000 or 2003 is not, therefore, unprecedently
seismic. The Conservatives are clearly a stronger force under Michael Howard
than under Iain Duncan Smith, but they are not yet taking large chunks of
territory that they could not secure under William Hague. With certain
exceptions, new seats acquired are not ideally situated for them. And the
outcome of the European elections tomorrow night may temper the enthusiasm of
Conservative Central Office, nervously awaiting the size of the UKIP surge.

There will, nonetheless, be a thesis expressed within the Labour Party that runs
as follows. If we are not losing many votes to the Conservatives, its advocates
will assert, then we must instead have discarded them to parties perceived as
standing to the left of Tony Blair. The best and fastest way to reconcile those
electors would be to move in their direction. New Labour should thus forget the
"new" and concentrate on the "Labour". In the most extreme version of this
blueprint, the Prime Minister himself should be sacrificed as a peace offering
(in more than one sense of the term).

This would not merely be an overreaction, it would be madness. To abandon the
middle ground in a desperate attempt to appease those who have flirted with the
Greens, the hard Left such as George Galloway's Respect or even the more
pacifist parts of the Liberal Democrats would be to court disaster come the
general election. The poll held for the BBC of all electors, not just those who
participated in this election, contained some interesting findings. It suggested
that Labour retained a very significant advantage on economic management and
that a larger proportion of the public believed that there were signs of
improvements in the public services than thought that 12 months ago. Mr Blair's
personal standing has taken something of a battering in this period, and an
increasing percentage of the population has lost faith in him, but the notion
that he has become a spectacular liability to his party is not proven.

Now is the time for ministers to build on what has been achieved and press
forward with reforms at a faster pace. To be momentarily politically mortified
is one thing. For a party to develop a death wish is another.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              106 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

'It drives me crazy -people who have talent but cruise in the comfort zone'

BYLINE: Alastair Campbell

SECTION: Sport; 34

LENGTH: 1175 words


A true adventurer with absolute commitment, Ian Botham joins the shortlist of
sport's great champions

AFTER a couple of hours trying to interview Ian Botham, I have a better idea how
those Australians felt. He interviews like he bowled, big intimidating presence,
keeps charging in at you and hurling down opinions one after the other, no
let-up, no quarter given.

As he charges in today, he clearly sees at the crease not a Times sportswriter
investigating how the good become great, but someone he thinks might take back a
message to the leader of his tribe, one Tony Blair.

So, on hunting: "You people from the towns should stop sticking your nose in and
telling us people in the country how to live our lives. Push it too far, and
you'll have them clogging up your motorways with combine harvesters." Zimbabwe:
"Makes my blood boil what he's doing to that country. There's a bloody sight
more UK passport holders in Zimbabwe than there are in Iraq and we're doing
bugger all about it." Europe: "Waste of time, mate, we should have nothing to do
with it."

When I hit back, maybe with a fact or two about UK-Europe trade to slow the
flow, the bowler turns batsman and he starts whacking the answers around, too,
till the gaggle at the door of the commentary box begins to wonder who is
interviewing whom. On he goes, petrol tax too high, hunting the thin end of the
wedge, kids should be made to wear proper school uniforms. And another thing
-why did we have to get rid of the title of Lord Chancellor? And another thing
-who is policing the internet? And another, and another and I'm saying Ian, Ian,
I want to talk cricket, so that's enough of this rag-bag collection of
right-wing views but he says: "I'm not right wing. I'm common sense." And for
the record, he has never heard of the UK Independence Party.

So we argue round a few issues, agree on some, disagree on most and at the end
of it all, he says he really enjoyed arguing with me and would I like to come to
a big barbecue he's having up in Durham at the end of the month and meet some of
his mates?

It is the attitude that makes rugby his favourite other sport. "They knock seven
barrels out of each other, then say thanks very much and go off for a drink
together." He is a driven individual, an enthusiast and adventurer who does
everything to the full, talks proudly of how his grandchildren eat snails on
holiday because "it's different", like he once ate live worms with an Aborigine
family. "I'll try anything once."

Although that determination to enjoy and fulfil himself got him into scrapes
along the way, and had him appearing on the front pages as well as the back,
it's also what made him the cricketer he was, one of the most exciting in
history and for that reason -and because he's British -the first of the three
cricketers I'm picking to go through to the next stage of our hunt for the
greatest sportsman of all time.

He is in no doubt of the single quality needed to make the most of any talent.

"You have to be tunnel-visioned. Sometimes that can cross into selfishness but
you're so tunnelvisioned you're not even aware you're being selfish. So I didn't
see enough of the kids when they were growing up, and in a way (his wife) Kath's
Dad was more a Dad to them at times than I was. And now Liam is making a career
in rugby league and I'm playing the role to his kids that Kath's Dad did to
mine, and it's fine, but it was a sacrifice, and it was because I was
tunnelvisioned.

"You've got to make the most of the opportunities you get and if you have a
talent, you have to use it. That's where the tunnel-visioned thing has to come
in.

I tell you what drives me crazy -people who have a talent but they cruise along
in the comfort zone. It's dreadful."

We started our interview at an event for Leukaemia Research, for which we both
raise money. We continued it in the Sky TV box overlooking the recent England v
New Zealand Test at Headingley, scene of one of his greatest innings, a century
against Australia in the 1981 series that became known as "Botham's Ashes". He
is not a man for "records and figures and all that stuff", and says people
regularly come up and remind him of matches he has long forgotten. But that
particular day was "awesome".

"There was no battle plan. I came out, really pumped up, twirled my bat like I
always did, looked up to the sky, went through my usual routine and just went
for it, and I felt great. I could feel I was turning the match. I was oblivious
to everything going on around me. I was totally focused. And it was an
unbelievable turnaround really. It was like a boxer who's been on the floor and
he gets up and he lands a few punches and then suddenly the other guy is on the
deck and he gets up but you know you've got him on the ropes. It was great.

"Then Edgbaston, when I took five wickets for one run and the crowd that day was
unbelievable, and it was the same thing, we were losing and everything went
right.

But again it wasn't some great plan. It was ball by ball, really pumped up,
crowd roaring, it all just happened and it was brilliant."

He hasn't picked up a bat since he retired but says he takes his work as a
commentator as seriously as he took his cricket. He also has more time for golf
and for his beloved huntin', shootin' and fishin' ("before you lot ban it all",
he adds) and will travel huge distances to see his children and three
grandchildren play sport and off he goes again. "Sport in schools is not the
priority it should be. Sport teaches you about life, about teamwork, about
leadership, temperament, temper, and we don't value it like we should. If you
want good sports facilities for kids, you have to send them to private schools
and it shouldn't be like that.

"Sixty-five million people on this rock of ours and apart from good old Tim
(Henman), we can't produce a decent tennis player. What about golf, look at all
these young golfers coming out of Sweden for heaven's sake and what have we got?
Why aren't we producing the best footballers in the world? Because kids are not
doing enough sport."

It's perhaps not surprising that his sporting heroes outside cricket come from a
different era and they are names common to most of the interviewees for this
series so far: Muhammad Ali, Pele -but the sportsman about whom he gets almost
misty-eyed is Jack Nicklaus. He claims not to care about records, but Big Jack's
record of 18 majors, he says, will never be beaten.

There is one more hero he wants to mention, and finally he says something to
please his Labour interviewer -it's Nelson Mandela. But it's Mandela being used
to make a point that he's already made to me many times. "I had the honour to
shake that man by the hand and he said to me 'sport has the power to make change
happen'. And it does have that power. But we're not doing it. It's time we did.

You and I can knock the other stuff around and have a bit of a laugh but that's
the one I'm really serious about. That's the axe I'm grinding."


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              107 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 12, 2004, Saturday

The Ups and Downs

SECTION: Overseas news; 19

LENGTH: 145 words


WINNERS

* UKIP which won its first council seats and are predicted to gain up to 12 Euro
MPs

* Peter Mandelson after Labour in Hartlepool bucked the national trend and won
back the council

* Lawyers who will make money contesting disputed postal ballot election results
* Tony Blair who was out of the country for the whole election period

LOSERS

* Rhodri Morgan whose decision to play golf on the D-Day anniversary has been
blamed for Labour's disastrous Welsh performance

* Nick Brown who walked out of the Newcastle count admitting that Labour had not
done so badly in the city since Callaghan

* Tories in Shrewsbury who bucked the national trend to lose the council

* John Prescott who was forced to defend Labour's postal vote policy in the face
of fraud and fiasco

www.timesonline.co.uk/elections Latest news, results, analysis


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION:  In Shrewsbury, the Tories were winners (NOT losers),as the p25
results table showed

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 11, 2004

Voters give their verdict

SECTION: ED_7TH_STH; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 925 words


Councils went to the polls in England and Wales yesterday. These results show:
The number of seats gained or lost by each party in this election; the number of
seats each party holds in the new council and lastly, which party, if any, now
holds an overall majority. Gains and losses are listed as up and down if the
council's area has been changed and there is no direct comparison with the last
election.

Amber Valley

Lab gain 1, C lose 1.

New council: Lab 21, C 24.

C council. No change

Barrow-in-Furness

Ind lose 1, C lose 2, Lab gain 3.

New council: C 12, Ind 2, Lab 24.

Lab council. No change

Bolton

Lab down 7, LD up 7.

New council: C 19, Lab 20, LD 21.

No controlling party. No change

Burnley

Ind lose 1, C gain 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 2.

New council: LD 11, Lab 21, Ind 3, C 4, BNP 6.

Lab lose control

Cannock Chase

Ind lose 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 2, LD gain 2.

New council: C 10, LD 14, Lab 17.

No controlling party. No change

Carlisle

LD gain 2, C lose 4, Lab gain 2.

New council: Ind 1, C 20, Lab 24, LD 7.

No controlling party. No change

Castle Point

Lab lose 1, R gain 5, C lose 4.

New council: Ind 1, C 35, R 5.

C council. No change

Cheltenham

Ind gain 1, LD lose 3, C gain 2.

New council: C 15, LD 18, Lab 2, Ind 5.

LD lose control

Chester

Lab lose 3, C gain 2, LD gain 1.

New council: Ind 1, Lab 17, C 20, LD 22.

No controlling party. No change

Chorley

LD lose 1, C gain 2, Lab lose 1.

New council: C 20, Lab 21, Ind 3, LD 3.

No controlling party. No change

Congleton

Ind lose 2, LD gain 2.

New council: LD 14, Lab 2, C 25, Ind 7.

C council. No change

Crewe & Nantwich

Ind lose 2, LD gain 1, C gain 1.

New council: C 22, Lab 22, Ind 6, LD 6.

No controlling party. No change

Derby

Ind lose 1, UKIP gain 1, C lose 1, LD gain 1.

New council: UKIP 1, Vacant 1, C 11, LD 14, Lab 24.

No controlling party. No change

Ellesmere Port & Neston

C gain 2, Lab lose 2.

New council: C 12, LD 2, Lab 29.

Lab council. No change

Exeter

C lose 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 1.

New council: LD 12, Lab 19, Lib 4, C 5.

No controlling party. No change

Gloucester

Lab lose 3, C gain 2, LD gain 1.

New council: LD 12, C 16, Lab 8.

No controlling party. No change

Harrogate

New council: LD 21, C 29, Ind 4.

C council. No change

Hertsmere

Lab lose 1, LD gain 1.

New council: C 25, LD 7, Lab 7.

C council. No change

Kingston-upon-Hull

Ind lose 3, UKIP gain 1, LD gain 2.

New council: UKIP 1, C 2, LD 24, Lab 27, Ind 5.

No controlling party. No change

Knowsley

Lab down 3.

New council: LD 11, Lab 52.

Lab council. No change

Lincoln

LD gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 1.

New council: LD 1, Lab 25, C 7.

Lab council. No change

Manchester

LD up 11, Lab down 14.

New council: Green 1, LD 39, Lab 56.

Lab council. No change

North East Lincolnshire

C lose 1, LD gain 1.

New council: C 15, LD 16, Ind 4, Lab 7.

No controlling party. No change

Nuneaton & Bedworth

LD gain 1, C gain 3, Lab lose 4.

New council: LD 1, C 11, Lab 22.

Lab council. No change

Oxford

Ind gain 2, Green gain 4, Lab lose 9, LD gain 3.

New council: LD 18, Lab 20, Ind 3, Green 7.

Lab lose control

Pendle

Ind lose 1, Lab lose 5, LD gain 6.

New council: C 11, LD 30, Lab 8.

LD gain control

Preston

Lab lose 1, C gain 1.

New council: Soc All 1, LD 10, C 18, Lab 24, Ind 4.

No controlling party. No change

Rochdale

C up 3, Lab down 6, LD up 3.

New council: C 11, Lab 24, LD 25.

No controlling party. No change

Rochford

Lab lose 2, C gain 2.

New council: Ind 1, Lab 1, R 1, C 32, LD 4.

C council. No change

Rossendale

Lab lose 8, C gain 8.

New council: Ind 1, LD 1, C 25, Lab 9.

C gain control

Runnymede

Lab lose 1, C gain 1.

New council: Lab 3, C 33, Ind 6.

C council. No change

Sefton

Ind down 3, C up 1, Lab down 3, LD up 5.

New council: C 19, Lab 20, LD 27.

No controlling party. No change

Shrewsbury & Atcham

Lab gain 1, C lose 1.

New council: Vacant 1, Lab 10, C 20, Ind 3, LD 6.

C council. No change

South Lakeland

Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2.

New council: Ind 2, C 20, LD 22, Lab 8.

No controlling party. No change

Southend-on-Sea

Ind gain 1, Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 1.

New council: Ind 2, C 33, LD 7, Lab 9.

C council. No change

Stevenage

LD gain 1, Lab lose 1.

New council: C 3, Lab 32, LD 4.

Lab council. No change

Stoke-on-Trent

LD lose 1, Ind lose 5, Lab gain 6.

New council: Vacant 1, Ind 13, BNP 2, Lab 34, C 5, LD 5.

Lab gain control

Stroud

New council: Lab 11, C 27, Ind 3, Green 4, LD 6.

C council. No change

Sunderland

Lib down 1, C up 3, Lab down 2.

New council: C 12, LD 2, Lab 61.

Lab council. No change

Swale

LD lose 1, C gain 1.

New council: LD 10, Lab 11, C 26.

C council. No change

Tameside

LD up 1, C up 1, Lab down 2.

New council: Ind 2, LD 3, Lab 45, C 7.

Lab council. No change

Tamworth

Lab lose 5, C gain 5.

New council: Ind 1, Lab 13, C 16.

C gain from Lab

Trafford

LD down 1, Lab down 11, C up 12.

New council: Lab 20, LD 3, C 40.

C gain control

Abbreviations: C-Conservative, Lab-Labour, LD-Liberal Democrat, Lib Liberal, Ind
Independent, R Ratepayers or Residents, Soc Dem Social Democrat, BNP British
National Party.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: THE VOTES ARE COUNTED IN OLDHAM

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              109 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 11, 2004

APATHY THE WINNER IN EUROPE ELECTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 148 words


SCOTLAND'S Euro elections went ahead yesterday with predictions that the turnout
could be a record low.

Early figures from the biggest polling stations in Glasgow suggested that just
8% of the potential electorate had voted by mid afternoon.

And at one polling station in Edinburgh, a parking warden booked drivers who
parked on a single yellow line as they voted.

As well as the six parties represented at Holyrood, the UK Independence Party,
the British National Party, Operation Christian Vote and Scottish Wind Watch
were vying for votes.

Fergus Tait, a North Sea drilling supervisor, was standing as the country's sole
independent candidate in the elections for the European Parliament.

Most of the votes will be counted on Sunday, but Orkney, Shetland, Western Isles
and Aberdeen will all count on Monday morning.

The result will be declared on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              110 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 11, 2004

EURO VOTERS BATTER BLA IR

BYLINE: by MACER HALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 527 words


TONY Blair was last night braced for a humiliating battering as election votes
were totted up.

The Prime Minister has already privately predicted a pasting in the biggest test
of opinion before next year's general election.

Early clues in the "Super Thursday" local council and Euro polls suggested
devastating losses for Labour.

Mr Blair is expected to reshuffle his Cabinet soon in an attempt at "freshening
up" the Government.

And he will face a crunch meeting with Labour MPs at Westminster on Monday in a
desperate attempt to raise morale.

Party insiders admitted that voters wanted to give Mr Blair a "bloody nose".

Many are disillusioned with Labour over the chaos in Iraq, rising violent crime
and botched immigration and asylum policies.

But Michael Howard's Conservatives were also preparing for disappointment.

Hopes of a Tory revival appeared to be dashed by a strong showing for the
hardline anti-EU UK Independence Party.

The winners appeared to be Charles Kennedy's Lib Dems and smaller parties.

Labour's Ken Livingstone and Tory Steve Norris were thought to be "neck and
neck" in the race to be London's mayor.

There was also disappointment at a suspected record low turnout. Less than
two-thirds of voters were estimated to have bothered with the polls.

However, areas with postal-only ballot reported a big rise in voting.

Most of the big council results and the capital's mayor vote will be declared
today.

But the totals in the election for the 78 MEPs Britain will send to the European
Parliament in Brussels, will not be unveiled until Sunday.

UKIP could win up to 17 MEPs, including former chat show host Robert
Kilroy-Silk.

One Labour insider said: "It's been a bad night for us. But it's also proved
that the Tories haven't recovered."

The main party leaders were pictured going to the polls yesterday - except Mr
Blair.

The Prime Minister was still at the G8 summit in Georgia in the US last night
and voted by post over a week ago.

Meanwhile a massive probe into alleged election fraud and dirty tricks will
begin today.

As the votes in the local and Euro polls were still being counted, claims of
ballot rigging were being investigated.

In the most astonishing allegations yet, Labour officials were accused of
preparing fake ballot boxes to collect hundreds of postal votes.

Other canvassers were said to have breached election rules by collecting ballot
papers on the doorstep.

And, in one case, a party worker was alleged to have used Tippex correction
fluid to change people's votes.

The fraud allegations followed the huge experiment in postal voting which saw
more than 12 million voters in the North West, North East, East Midlands and
Yorkshire and Humberside asked to mail their ballot papers as a way of boosting
the number of people voting.

But Tories called for compulsory postal voting to be suspended.

Conservative MP Eric Forth said: "We cannot have this going ahead with people
not being able to trust the process."

Cabinet minister Peter Hain quickly hit back, claiming critics of postal voting
were "scared of democracy".

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              111 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

Blair braced for battering at the polls

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor and Toby Helm in Savannah

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 781 words

TONY Blair conceded last night that Labour was heading for a battering in
yesterday's "super Thursday" European, local and London mayor elections.

Speaking in the United States as the polls closed in the biggest test of opinion
before an expected general election next year, Mr Blair said the Iraq war had
cast "a shadow" over Labour.

His comments coincided with a poll suggesting that had yesterday been a general
election, Labour's 161 majority in the Commons would have been wiped out, with
Mr Blair clinging on as Prime Minister in a hung Parliament.

The YouGov poll of 7,000 voters for Sky News suggested the Tories would get 36
per cent, Labour 32 per cent, the Liberal Democrats 18 per cent, and the UK
Independence Party seven per cent.

Labour, however, would still be the largest party, but without an overall
majority. The Tories need at least 40 per cent to gain a majority at the next
election.

The poll also suggested that Ken Livingstone would scrape in as London mayor for
a second term when the result is announced this evening, though Steve Norris,
the Tory candidate, would come a strong second.

Mr Blair appeared to be braced for big losses in the local elections when he
addressed journalists at the end of the G8 summit on Sea Island, near Savannah,
Georgia.

"Iraq and the worries over Iraq have been a shadow over our support but in the
end you have to take decisions that are right and you have to see them through,"
Mr Blair said. But the Prime Minister made clear he would not change his stance
on Iraq despite the expected setback at the polls.

"Sometimes when you have a difficult situation like this you have simply got to
take the decision you think is right and stick with it."

He said aside from Iraq he believed people would recognise the benefits of a
strong economy, the creation of jobs, and record low unemployment.

"I think these things stand us in pretty good stead.

"I haven't noticed in the election campaign any big argument come back from the
other political parties," he said.

The elections for more than 6,000 seats on 166 local authorities in England and
Wales, the London mayor and assembly, and 78 European MPs in Britain and
Northern Ireland, were overshadowed by bitter argument over allegations of fraud
and chaos in the four regions where all-postal ballots were held.

Mr Blair voted by post in London before he left for the summit.

Michael Howard and his wife Sandra voted at their local polling station in
Lympne, Kent, while Charles Kennedy, Liberal Democrat leader, and his wife
Sarah, cast their votes in south London.

Labour was expecting substantial losses in many of its inner-city heartlands
after party workers found that the Iraq war had undermined the Government's
standing, particularly among ethnic minority voters.

The elections were the first test for Mr Howard after seven months as
Conservative leader.

While the Tories expected to do well in the more affluent South, they needed to
gain seats and councils in the North to be in a position to mount a serious
challenge at the next general election.

The loss of any large metropolitan councils such as Newcastle upon Tyne or Leeds
would rattle Labour. The party hoped that an increased turnout in the four
regions that conducted all-postal ballots - the North-West, the North-East, the
East Midlands and Yorkshire and Humberside - would limit its losses.

The Government faced criticism from MPs of all parties yesterday over the
chaotic way the all-postal ballots had been conducted.

The Tories said they had become known as the "fistful of ballots" fiasco because
of allegations of fraud, intimidation and dirty tricks. Sunderland, one of the
councils undertaking the all-postal voting experiment, reported yesterday that
the number of votes cast by return of ballot papers was 17 per cent ahead of up
on the 2002 local elections, conducted by the traditional ballot box method.

Tory celebrations over good results in the local elections could be tempered by
the outcome of the European elections, which will not be known until after 9pm
on Sunday, when polls have closed in the other 24 members of the European Union.

A strong showing for the UK Independence Party - which advocates withdrawal from
the European Union - could erode support for the Conservatives and re-open Tory
divisions on Europe.

A Gallup forecast compiled before the polls opened suggested the UKIP could pick
up a dozen seats - a four-fold increase on its present three seats in the
European Parliament.

The survey suggested the Tories would stay ahead of Labour, with 23 seats and 20
seats respectively, with the Liberal Democrats gaining between 10 and 14 MEPs.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              112 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

I'm afraid I have to vote Tory - even if that means ghastly Norris

BYLINE: by Tom Utley

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1009 words

I would have voted differently yesterday, if I had been made to do it by post.
But there was something about the atmosphere of the polling station and its
familiar ritual that made me change my mind. I wonder how many others felt the
same.

Until the evening before the polls opened, I had made up my mind firmly to vote
as follows: in the European elections, I would vote UKIP; in the London mayoral
election, my first vote would go to the Green candidate and my second to Steve
Norris, the Conservative; in the London Assembly elections, I would cast both my
votes for the Tories.

That may sound frivolous or perverse, but I had thought deeply about it and had
very serious reasons for all my decisions.

I wanted to vote for UKIP in the European elections, because that seemed to be
the only way of showing the politicians how deeply unhappy I am with the way in
which they are allowing Britain to be pushed around by the bureaucracy in
Brussels. The EU has undermined British sovereignty to the point where
Parliament has no effective say whatsoever in most of the new laws and
regulations imposed on the British electorate.

This is how wars start, when people feel that they have nothing in common with
the powers set over them and can see no means of changing anything except by
violence.

All vast conglomerations of nations, from the Austro-Hungarian empire in 1914 to
the Soviet Union in the late 20th century, have bred terrible discontent among
their subject peoples. It has been the same old story, from the Balkans to
Chechnya and Afghanistan. And now the Europhiles are proposing to set up another
super-state, yoking disparate peoples under a single authority, whether they
like it or not.

Apart from being cumbersome, expensive and corrupt, the EU represents a serious
long-term threat to peace in Europe. Euro-sceptics don't stress that enough -
perhaps because they are afraid of being thought wildly eccentric, as so many
thought Churchill when he warned in the 1930s about the threat posed by German
rearmament.

When I set off for the polling station yesterday morning, I felt that the
Conservative Party under Michael Howard had been very feeble indeed about
defending my country's interests in Strasbourg and Brussels. Labour and the
Liberal Democrats, meanwhile, had sold out completely to the Germans and the
French.

I knew that a vote for UKIP's European candidates would have no great effect.
MEPs have very little power of any sort (the EU is not a proper democracy) - and
they have no power at all to fulfil UKIP's manifesto pledge to pull Britain out
of the EU. That suited me, too, since I am not at all sure that I want out.
Although I am no economist, I am sure that there are great advantages to be had
from belonging to a tariff-free trading bloc. It is just that I don't see why
tariff-free trade should mean a common defence policy, a common foreign policy,
common railway timetables or an undemocratic European constitution.

A good showing for UKIP, I reckoned, would bring home to Labour and the
Conservatives just how strongly most of us Britons feel about our right to
choose who rules us. It might make the Government think twice before signing up
to the next initiative from Brussels or Berlin.

In the mayoral elections, I wanted to give my first vote to the Greens, because
somebody had told me that theirs was the only candidate who had promised
unequivocally to oppose a ban on smoking in public places. I was already
dismayed by Steve Norris's refusal to give up the chairmanship of Jarvis, the
company that maintains London Underground. Never did a politician have a more
obvious conflict of interest. I also found it hard to stomach his support for
spending public money on a "gay museum". How could any self-respecting
Conservative - straight or gay - think it proper to force people to spend their
earnings on such a project? I am not a bit against the idea of a gay museum, if
somebody wants to set one up. But why should we all be made to pay for it?

The last straw for me was Mr Norris's declaration that he was prepared to allow
councils to ban smoking in pubs, clubs, restaurants and workplaces. What a
monstrous assault on freedom. By all means let individual publicans,
restaurateurs or club-owners ban smoking, if they or their customers don't like
it. In fact, I wish there were more non-smoking restaurants and pubs, where all
the po-faced health fanatics could bore each other about the dangers of obesity,
or whatever they like to talk about. Live and let live, I say.

But the moment when Mr Norris spoke up for officially imposed smoking bans was
the moment when I said: "That's it. He's not getting my vote." Then a small
voice in my Tory head told me: "All right, he is a revolting man. But it will
please my party if he does well. He can have my second preference."

As for the London Assembly elections, I had no hesitation in backing the Tories.
This ridiculous body is as impotent as the European Parliament. But such tiny
powers as it has are powers to restrain the mayor. I reckoned that whoever was
elected mayor, the Tories would do a much better job of keeping him and his
spending in check than anybody else.

So that was how I would have voted if I had been made to vote by post: UKIP,
Green and Tory. But then I would have missed out on most of the drama of the
election.

I began to change my mind on Wednesday evening, when the latest poll showed Ken
Livingstone and Steve Norris running neck-and-neck. Suddenly I realised that I
would much rather a Tory won than Mr Livingstone - even if that Tory was the
ghastly Mr Norris.

Then there was the polling station itself. The people in the church hall were as
friendly and serious as they always are, full of community spirit and civic
duty. Only a polling station can bring home how serious an election is. A postal
vote, filled in at the kitchen table to save having to walk to the church hall,
can never be the same. Reader, I voted Tory, Tory and Tory - with a second
preference for a smoking Green mayor.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              113 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

Holland shows the way

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 29

LENGTH: 412 words

Political earthquakes sometimes begin with tiny acts of defiance rather than
grand gestures. The Dutch government's threat to release preliminary results of
the European elections last night, rather than waiting until Sunday, caused
apoplexy in Brussels. If the British had done such a thing, EU officials would
have reacted with a contemptuous shrug. But the Dutch are model EU citizens -
or, at least, they were, until large numbers of them voted for an
anti-immigration party in 2002. These days, the catchphrase in Holland is
"Normen en waarden" - "norms and values". A plan to deport 26,000 failed asylum
seekers enjoys public support and both main political parties are relatively
Euro-sceptic.

The EU political elite always used to hold up Holland as a beacon of the future.
Perhaps it still is, but not in the way that the federalists anticipated. In a
speech last week, Bernard Bot, the Dutch foreign minister, said that his country
should consider seizing back control of health, culture and social policy from
Brussels. Similar views are being expressed all over Europe by politicians
sensitive to public opinion, to the anguish of their former allies in the
Europhile media.

With the United Kingdom Independence Party making a strong show, hands are being
wrung here, too. Yesterday's Guardian leader column was a classic example. "It
feels like a Dunkirk moment for the European cause," the paper declared, blaming
"the lies and fears promoted by the Europe-hating section of the press". It
concluded that, "if this is a Dunkirk moment, then now is the time to start
preparing for a D-Day moment" - D-Day in this context being a referendum victory
by supporters of the European Constitution. It is hard to think of a more
fatuous analogy: surely, if D-Day is to be dragged into this debate, it should
represent the liberation of nations, rather than their subordination to
centralised political control.

But the new European mood goes deeper than simple disenchantment with
bureaucracy, and it is not confined to the Right. We may be witnessing the
disintegration of a whole culture. The haughty, dirigiste philosophy of the
European Commission championed a failed economic model and depended on the
subservience of the people to the ideals of a ruling class. Those ideals were
nothing if not comprehensive, covering sovereignty, economic policy, immigration
and defence; and now they are being gradually rejected - even by the progressive
Dutch.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              114 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

Kilroy-Silk eyes up Commons return

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 29

LENGTH: 234 words

If the polls are to be believed, the UK Independence Party will have done well
enough in yesterday's elections to see Robert Kilroy-Silk elected an MEP in the
East Midlands.

But, Spy learns, even if the former talk show host is sent to Brussels, he might
not be there for very long.

For it turns out that RK-S's beady eyes are back on the Commons, which he left
in 1986 when he resigned as a Labour MP to pursue a television career.

"The idea is being seriously discussed of Robert standing for us in a
forthcoming parliamentary by-election," reveals one well-placed UKIP insider.

"There is one coming up shortly in Leicester South - which is in his East
Midlands patch - but there could be an even more promising contest coming up in
Birmingham Hodge Hill."

Indeed. Spy revealed recently that the sitting Hodge Hill MP, Terry Davis, will
be forced to resign from the Commons if/when chosen for a job at the Council of
Europe later this month. I understand that it is there that Kilroy-Silk favours
putting himself forward.

"He grew up in the area and most of his family are still living there," adds my
source.

"Add to that the fact that Saltley Grammar School, which he attended, is in the
constituency and you have a perfect local candidate. Given the growing contempt
for the traditional parties and Robert's personal popularity, the political
establishment could be in for a shock."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              115 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 11, 2004

BLAIR: ELECTION, WHAT ELECTION?

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 640 words


SUN-drenched Tony Blair last night poured scorn on the damning verdict of
Britain's voters as he declared he had seen nothing to cause him "political
concern".

As Labour took a severe pounding in town hall elections across the land, a
tanned and relaxed Mr Blair claimed: "I haven't noticed in the election campaign
any big argument come back from the other political parties."

From the luxurious setting of Sea Island, Georgia at the close of the G8 summit
of world leaders, he said: "I don't think either of them have particularly
articulated anything that causes me political concern."

His remarks, which came hours after homeowners were hit by another interest rate
rise, appeared to echo former Labour PM Jim Callaghan's notorious "crisis, what
crisis?" response to news of unrest in Britain as he flew home from an
international summit in Guadaloupe early in 1979.

Months later he was turfed out of Downing Street and replaced by Margaret
Thatcher's Tories.

Last night, fears were growing among senior Labour MPs that the Prime Minister
is increasingly detached from the lives of ordinary voters. Mr Blair will today
attend the funeral of former US president Ronald Reagan. Back in Britain a
YouGov poll of voters for Sky News picked up the first evidence of a terrible
election night for Labour, suggesting Ken Livingstone was being taken to the
wire in the race to be London Mayor by unfancied Tory Steve Norris.

The Conservatives last night accused Mr Blair of being completely out of touch.

"Mr Blair is like an ostrich with his head buried in the sand just as a
juggernaut is about to hit him. His remarks show an astonishing level of
complacency and a total disregard for the views of the British people.

"He is being deserted by voters in droves, " said Tory chairman Liam Fox.

Senior Lib Dem peer Lord McNally said: "The Prime Minister is presiding over the
worst Labour Party result in his history, yet he finds nothing to cause him
political concern.

"The Labour MPs who under these predictions would lose their seats. . .

are not going to be complacent when they get back to Westminster."

Lord McNally said the results indicated a "deeper malaise" for Labour and that
voters would never trust him again after he took Britain to war in Iraq on a
false prospectus last year.

YouGov estimated that if Labour's performance was repeated at a general
election, more than 80 Labour MPs would lose their seats, leaving Mr Blair
without an overall majority.

YouGov found 36 per cent of voters would back the Conservatives, 32 per cent
Labour, 18 per cent Liberal Democrats and seven per cent for the UK Independence
Party.

Despite mounting voter concern over high taxes and sub-standard public services,
Mr Blair claimed opposition to his policy on Iraq was the only significant
factor undermining Labour's support.

He said voters were bound to recognise the benefits of a strong economy, the
creation of jobs, and record low unemployment when it came to the next general
election. "I think these things stand us in pretty good stead, " he said.

Asked whether United Nations agreement on a resolution on Iraq would have won
Labour any last minute votes, Mr Blair replied simply: "I don't know. The reason
we do it is because we think it's the right thing to do."

But one former minister told the Daily Express last night: "Prime ministers all
lose touch eventually and these remarks appear to indicate the process is well
advanced in Tony's case.

"I am sure the British public would appreciate a little more humility from the
leader of a party which is suffering a very bruising defeat at the ballot box.

"If he doesn't get the message this time many voters may be sorely tempted to
administer an even bigger dose of trouble for us at the next general election."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              116 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 11, 2004

POLITICAL FIG LEAVES WILL NOT HIDE BLAIR DAMAGE

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 396 words


BEHIND the whiff of sleaze which surrounds these elections lurks the smell of
fear.

For Labour has spent months living in dread of the verdict of voters on "Super
Thursday".

Party strategists knew much of their own core vote would stay at home, while
highly-motivated right-wing Eurosceptics would head to the voting stations in
droves.

Labour aides also knew the media would have a field day at the sight of Tony
Blair crashing down to earth. It could even tip the PM into a full-scale
leadership crisis.

So all kinds of extreme measures were put into place in a desperate bid to
secure Mr Blair some fig-leafs to disguise his unpopularity in Britain at large.
First, his one-time mortal enemy Ken Livingstone was brought back into the fold
in a bid to guarantee a Labour victory in London.

Next, ministers ploughed ahead with a move to postal voting in four Labour
heartland regions. Previous pilot schemes had shown giving everyone a postal
vote did significantly raise turn-out and Labour strategists believed that would
favour them.

Warnings of the system's susceptibility to fraud and administrative chaos were
ignored as ministers engaged in a headlong rush to secure narrow party
advantage.

We now know Labour aides even considered instructing party workers across
Britain to set up fake polling stations to collect late postal ballots and rush
them to returning officers.

Whatever the final electoral reckoning from Super Thursday - and we won't know
that until Sunday night - it has hardly been an edifying chapter in the long and
distinguished history of British democracy.

In fact, the desperate tactics Mr Blair has employed merely serve to highlight
the chronic state of weakness to which he has been reduced.

Not untypically, he is abroad during this domestic crisis but plans a
"fightback" programme next week.

Downing Street will claim a strong result for Ukip in the European results on
Sunday is bad news for Michael Howard - despite big Tory gains in town hall
contests.

Then on Monday, Mr Blair will plead with Labour MPs to keep faith with him,
before going toe-to-toe with the media on Tuesday during a Downing Street press
conference.

But spin and stage management can only take a politician so far before the truth
will out.

And the simple truth is that Mr Blair is an increasingly unpopular premier.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              117 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 11, 2004

POLITICIANS PLAYING THE SAME OLD TIRED TUNE

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 106 words


LISTENING to Tony Blair and Michael Howard is like listening to broken or
scratched records repeating the same old, tired political policies.

They just don't realise they don't fool the voters anymore, because they've
heard it all before.

Blair doesn't have any new policies up his sleeve and Michael Howard is no
different than Margaret Thatcher.

He's a well-known Thatcherite who will carry on the Thatcherite policies of the
late Seventies and Eighties.

Is it any wonder that the voters are leaving the mainstream political parties
and going for parties like the Greens and UKIP?

Allan Damien Goodwin, Wick

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              118 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 11, 2004

3am News: Labour hit by election blow: Tory and Lib Dems make council gains:
Higher turnout but still below hopes

BYLINE: Michael White and Patrick Wintour

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 764 words


Labour fears of a drubbing in this year's council elections appeared to be
justified early today as a swath of results delivered gains to the Tories and
Liberal Democrats.

A BBC projection on the baiss of 43 results and 400,000 votes counted by 2.30am
pushed Labour into third place with 26% of the vote, copared with 38% for the
Tories, and 30% for the Liberal Democrats.

With a modest increase in turnout slowing down the count the Tories took
Trafford, Greater Manchester - a key target - from Labour, as well as Swindon,
Harrogate and Tamworth. Boosted by anti-war votes the Liberal Democrats gained
Pendle and tightened their grip on Liverpool as well as taking seats in
Manchester, Cardiff and smaller cities from Oxford to Carlisle, although they
lost Cheltenham. Labour regained control of Hartlepool and Stoke.

The results also suggested that London mayoral frontrunner Ken Livingstone will
have to run the capital without a controlling Labour block on the London
assembly.

The far-right British National party, overshadowed during the campaign by the
surging UK Independence party (Ukip), was said to have gained one seat in
Burnley, but lost the other seven in which BNP candidates were standing. Labour
fought off a BNP challenge in Sunderland.

Ukip, which concentrated its efforts on yesterday's EU election, whose results
will be declared on Sunday, won a council seat - the first of two - in John
Prescott's home base of Hull. Ukip was said to be taking Labour as well as Tory
votes. The Greens also made gains, including four seats in Oxford where Labour
lost control.

Controversy over postal voting may generate legal challenges as opposition
parties blamed Mr Prescott for forcing through an over-ambitious experiment.

But the health secretary, John Reid, conceded on BBC TV: "Obviously it is going
to be a very difficult night for us." Liam Fox, Tory co-chairman, called it:
"Labour's worst result at least since 1983 and probably for a long time before
that."

As he gained confidence Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, said:
"This looks very good for us and very bad for Labour." Aides said that - on the
back of voter disaffection over Iraq - the Lib Dems were getting a 4% swing from
Labour compared with 2003. The Tories also gained at Labour's expense. But with
disaffected voters having half a dozen protest parties to choose from, all the
main parties were feeling their way in the dark.

Tony Blair, whose public standing has been further dented according to a BBC
poll last night, admitted at the G8 summit on Sea Island, Georgia, that Iraq had
cast a "shadow" over Labour's campaign but in sisted that the booming economy
would "stand us in good stead". As votes were being counted in town halls across
the country, a Sky TV/YouGov survey of 7,000 voters predicted that Labour could
lose three of its nine seats on the 25-strong London Assembly - and with it the
means to prevent Mr Livingstone's plans being vetoed by a two-thirds vote. Ukip
would gain its first two seats.

On this pattern Mr Blair would lose his overall Com mons majority at a general
election, Sky claimed.

Polling closed in Britain's three-in-one mid-term elections last night amid
signs of improved levels of turnout, but by nowhere near as much as optimists
had hoped.

The BBC suggested that turnout was around 6% higher in two of the four regions
using postal votes - the North-west and East Midlands - 4.5% up in Yorkshire and
Humberside, but 1.5% down in the North-east. That may reflect less flexible
rules for postal voting, including a requirement for a witness statement.

With 6,060 council seats, 78 tickets to the European parliament as well as the
London mayoralty at stake, all the main parties - and protest parties - were
hopeful of some success, but fearful of nasty surprises as results emerge.

If the drubbing Downing Street expects at town hall level is repeated in the EU
ballot or Ken Livingstone loses London today it could be the beginning of the
end of Mr Blair's premiership. For Michael Howard, in his first electoral test
as leader, the stakes are not much smaller. Early today there was no sign of a
breakthrough after results in places like Chorley and Barrow. Rhodri Morgan,
chief executive of Wales, where Labour hung on to Cardiff, said: "The chief
opposition party should be knocking Labour out left right and centre even in the
bellwether heartlands and theer is no sign of the Conservatives doing that, or
even trying to do that."

Elections 2004, page 10

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              119 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 11, 2004

Elections 2004: Postal ballot: Turnout up but fears of fraud grow: Criticism
fails to derail plan for all local elections

BYLINE: Peter Hetherington, Patrick Wintour and Sarah Hall

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 606 words


Tougher safeguards are required to curb electoral fraud before another
all-postal ballot, the UK's foremost pollsters warned yesterday as early results
showed that turnout had increased across northern England.

In a strong attack on the organisation of all-postal voting, which involved a
third of the English electorate in yesterday's local and European elections, the
chief executive of the Electoral Reform Society said he was "deeply concerned"
on several fronts.

Undaunted, the government appears keen to press on with plans for all-postal
ballots in all local elections - although it might be forced to temper its
enthusiasm after the findings of the Electoral Commission study into the
handling of the elections in the four pilot regions: the north-west, the
north-east, Yorkshire and the Humber, and east midlands.

Ministers claim that allegations of mismanagement and fraud have been greatly
exaggerated, while the commission appears broadly in favour of extending the
method to all local elections, subject to more stringent safeguards. They will
be encouraged by signs that the change of system had raised turnout to about 40%
in many northern cities.

Government figures suggested that by Tuesday the number of people who had
bothered to vote in the four regions was a million higher than it was in the
1999 European elections, making the total 3,856,000 .

However, unlike the 1999 figures, the new total included spoilt ballot papers.

The Tories immediately seized on the discrepancy and accused the government of
"gerrymandering".

Unease about slack security at counting centres, with parties apparently seeing
ballot forms before polling day, has led, according to the magazine Housing
Today, to claims of "widespread abuse" of the postal voting system by
councillors. One senior councillor in the north-west said the system had been
abused by postal votes being opened by officers before the official count so
that ballots for local and European elections could be separated.

Carl Mimms, deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats on Hull city council, said it
was possible to make detailed predictions of the results, with information
coming from "little bits we are picking up at the opening of the postal votes".

Labour, meanwhile, is to conduct a review into proportional voting for the
Commons after the use of PR voting in the European and London mayoral assembly
elections, as well as PR ballots for the Scottish and Welsh assembly.

It will be overseen by the Department of Constitutional Affairs and is likely to
start in September

The apparent surge in support for the UK Independence party and other fringe
parties is bound to cement opposition to PR systems inside the Labour party.

Ministers recognise that Labour support for PR alters inside the party according
to the likelihood of Labour winning an overall majority.

Next tuesday, to try to regain momentum for PR inside Labour, the Make Votes
Count campaign will host a meeting in the Commons with the education minister
Stephen Twigg. The 2001 Labour manifesto promised to "review new electoral
systems to assess whether changes might be made to the electoral system for the
House of Commons", saying a referendum was the right way to agree changes.

Opponents of PR for the Commons argue that it would bring weak government and
give disproportionate power to minority parties.

It is likely that any review will go wider than reform for the Commons and look
at the performance of PR in Scottish Welsh, local and European elections. The
Scots are planning to bring in PR for Scottish local government.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 11, 2004

Elections 2004: Analysis: Rocky night signals Labour's three-day storm: Early
results poor for Blair but do not show Tory breakthrough

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 945 words


An anxious Labour party last night battened down the hatches as it felt the
first batterings of what promises to be a three-day storm dislodging the
government's safer moorings. Tony Blair's biggest electoral test since 2001 is
going to be agonisingly drawn out for him, with last night's rocky results just
the first stage of a wave of bad news for the prime minister.

Early results, delayed by the arrival of a late flurry of postal votes, were
initially poor for Labour right across the country, but did not represent a
stunning Tory breakthrough.

The Conservative seizure of the swing battleground of the metropolitan council
of Trafford in the north-west of England was predictable, but Charles Kennedy,
the Liberal Democrat leader, claimed his party had retained control of Liverpool
with an increased majority. He predicted - presumably on the basis of inside
information - that his party "had made handsome gains in Birmingham and
Manchester", and forecast "a big prize in Sheffield and Newcastle".

Although the much criticised council of Hull, the home town of John Prescott,
remained under no overall control, there were signs that some of the Labour vote
had seeped to the minor parties. After six recounts the UK Independence party
won its first seat, prompting a threatened legal challenge.

By contrast the BNP made none of the big gains they had predicted in Burnley,
largely due to the large turnout. Further south, Labour lost the leadership of
the archetypal New Labour town of Swindon, on very local issues, and then saw
losses to Greens and Liberal Democrats in Oxford, possibly due to Iraq.

Labour said the results were too patchy, localised and diffuse to draw any real
message. It pointed out it had held control of Carlisle, suffered few reverses
in Preston, and made progress in Barrow.

So Mr Blair will wake up this morning with a minor electoral headache, but it is
likely to hurt more when he loses control of a swathe of English metropolitan
councils in the north, where ballot papers were not being counted until today.
The stream of bad news from the north will be only be balanced by the likely
re-election of Ken Livingstone as London mayor tonight.

According to a SkyNews/ YouGov internet poll, Mr Livingstone will be re-elected
by 53% to 47%, but the mayor will be surrounded by a largely hostile London
assembly, boding ill for Labour's coming general election performance in the
capital.

On Sunday Mr Blair's advisers will bring the prime minister the third, and
possibly most significant wave of bad news, as Labour loses a swathe of European
parliamentary seats across the UK.

But Labour is increasingly hopeful that a strong Ukip performance, clearly
hinted at in last night's opening council results, will prevent the
Conservatives achieving a recognisable breakthrough.

One senior minister in the office of the deputy prime minister reckoned "these
three days are going to add up to a serious rap over the knuckles. But the
voters do not hate us. It is not like the late 70s and 80s when the voters
detested us and just would not look us in the eye."

Labour said the party's seat tally loss by tonight would look especially bad
since so many metropolitan councils were holding all-out elections, covering
every council seat in every ward. Normally only a third of seats on a council
are up for grabs. The redrawing of ward boundaries to take account of
demographic changes over the past decade had also benefited the Tories.
Ministers also admitted that even Mr Livingstone could have been lost in the
tidal wave. "If Steve Norris had been willing to stand down from the
chairmanship of Jarvis, it would have been very difficult for Ken," the minister
conceded.

In the coming inquest, starting with a sombre meeting of the parliamentary
Labour party on Monday evening, Mr Blair will try to persuade his MPs not to
panic, hold their nerve and recognise Labour's standing has been overshadowed
temporarily by Iraq.

He plans to remind them, as he did at the close of the G8 summit, that the
government's record on the economy and jobs would "stand us in good stead".

"I haven't noticed in the election campaign any big argument come back from the
other political parties," he said.

But Lord McNally, the Liberal Democrat peer, may have been speaking for some
nervous Labour MPs when he insisted the damage for Mr Blair was permanent. "The
prime minister took the country to war on a false perspective and they are never
going to trust him again," he said.

He then cheerfully misquoted Siegfried Sassoon: "It's good old Bill, it's good
old Jack, but he did for them both with his plan of attack."

A BBC poll showed last night that the number believing the Iraq war was right
had fallen from 58 to 38 % over the past year. Labour pointed to other poll
surveys released last night suggesting that Iraq, and Europe, were not going to
be the big vote switching issues in the general election.

Old Queen Street - Labour's headquarters now that the party has moved from its
Millbank Tower offices - insisted the results also showed "Michael Howard does
not have the capacity to bring together the protest against the government as we
did in 1997 and Margaret Thatcher did in 1979".

A persistent Labour theme will be that Mr Howard has failed to mount a big
argument, the pre-condition for a seismic shift in the political landscape.

Labour is even hoping that the Conservatives will end up with their lowest share
of the vote in any European election, an outcome that, in the words of the
health secretary, John Reid, would turn Ukip into the Tories' ticking timebomb.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              121 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 11, 2004

Elections 2004: Results at 3am

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 712 words


Metro

Bolton

NOC No change

Lab down 7/LD up 7

New council C 19/Lab 20/LD 21

Knowsley

Lab No change

Lab down 3

New council LD 11/Lab 52

Manchester

Lab No change

LD up 11/Lab down 14

New council Green 1/LD 39/Lab 56

Rochdale

NOC No change

C up 3/Lab down 6/LD up 3

New council C 11/Lab 24/LD 25

Sefton

NOC No change

Ind down 3/C up 1/Lab down 3/LD up 5

New council C 19/Lab 20/LD 27

Sunderland

Lab No change

Lib down 1/C up 3/Lab down 2

New council C 12/LD 2/Lab 61

Tameside

Lab No change

LD up 1/C up 1/Lab down 2

New council Ind 2/LD 3/Lab 45/C 7

Trafford

C gain from NOC

LD down 1/Lab down 11/C up 12

New council Lab 20/LD 3/C 40

Non-metro

Amber Valley

C No change

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council Lab 21/C 24

Barrow-in-Furness

Lab No change

Ind lose 1/C lose 2/Lab gain 3

New council C 12/Ind 2/Lab 24

Burnley

Lab lose to NOC

Ind lose 1/C gain 1/LD gain 2/Lab lose 2

New council LD 11/Lab 21/Ind 3/C 4/BNP 6

Carlisle

NOC No change

LD gain 2/C lose 4/Lab gain 2

New council Ind 1/C 20/Lab 24/LD 7

Castle Point

C No change

Lab lose 1/R gain 5/C lose 4

New council Ind 1/C 35/R 5

Cheltenham

LD lose to NOC

Ind gain 1/LD lose 3/C gain 2

New council C 15/LD 18/Lab 2/Ind 5

Chester

NOC No change

Lab lose 3/C gain 2/LD gain 1

New council Ind 1/Lab 17/C 20/LD 22

Chorley

NOC No change

LD lose 1/C gain 2/Lab lose 1

New council C 20/Lab 21/Ind 3/LD 3

Congleton

C No change

Ind lose 2/LD gain 2

New council LD 14/Lab 2/C 25/Ind 7

Crewe & Nantwich

NOC No change

Ind lose 2/LD gain 1/C gain 1

New council C 22/Lab 22/Ind 6/LD 6

Ellesmere Port & Neston

Lab No change

C gain 2/Lab lose 2

New council C 12/LD 2/Lab 29

Exeter

NOC No change

C lose 1/LD gain 2/Lab lose 1

New council LD 12/Lab 19/Lib 4/C 5

Gloucester

NOC No change

Lab lose 3/C gain 2/LD gain 1

New council LD 12/C 16/Lab 8

Harrogate

C No change

New council LD 21/C 29/Ind 4

Hertsmere

C No change

Lab lose 1/LD gain 1

New council C 25/LD 7/Lab 7

South Lakeland

NOC No change

Lab lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council Ind 2/C 20/LD 22/Lab 8

West Lancashire

C No change

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 25/C 29

Lincoln

Lab No change

LD gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 1

New council LD 1/Lab 25/C 7

Nuneaton & Bedworth

Lab No change

LD gain 1/C gain 3/Lab lose 4

New council LD 1/C 11/Lab 22

Oxford

Lab lose to NOC

Ind gain 2/Green gain 4/Lab lose 9/LD gain 3

New council LD 18/Lab 20/Ind 3/Green 7

Pendle

LD gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 5/LD gain 6

New council C 11/LD 30/Lab 8

Preston

NOC No change

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council Soc All 1/LD 10/C 18/Lab 24/Ind 4

Rochford

C No change

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council Ind 1/Lab 1/R 1/C 32/LD 4

Rossendale

C gain from NOC

Lab lose 8/C gain 8

New council Ind 1/LD 1/C 25/Lab 9

Runnymede

C No change

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 3/C 33/Ind 6

Shrewsbury & Atcham

C No change

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council Vacant 1/Lab 10/C 20/Ind 3/LD 6

Stevenage

Lab No change

LD gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council C 3/Lab 32/LD 4

Stroud

C No change

New council Lab 11/C 27/Ind 3/Green 4/LD 6

Swale

C No change

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council LD 10/Lab 11/C 26

Tamworth

C gain from Lab

Lab lose 5/C gain 5

New council Ind 1/Lab 13/C 16

Woking

NOC No change

Lab lose 2/Ind lose 1/LD gain 3

New council LD 15/C 17/Lab 4

Unitary

Derby

NOC No change

Ind lose 1/UKIP gain 1/C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council UKIP 1/Vacant 1/C 11/LD 14/Lab 24

Kingston-upon-Hull

NOC No change

Ind lose 3/UKIP gain 1/LD gain 2

New council UKIP 1/C 2/LD 24/Lab 27/Ind 5

North East Lincolnshire

NOC No change

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council C 15/LD 16/Ind 4/Lab 7

Southend-on-Sea

C No change

Ind gain 1/Lab lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council Ind 2/C 33/LD 7/Lab 9

Stoke-on-Trent

Lab gain from NOC

LD lose 1/Ind lose 5/Lab gain 6

New council Vacant 1/Ind 13/BNP 2/Lab 34/C 5/LD 5


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              122 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

BLAIR PUNISHED FOR IRAQ WAR AS COUNCILS FALL TO CONSERVATIVES

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND COLIN BROWN

SECTION: Final Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 643 words


TONY BLAIR suffered a severe setback early today as Labour was hit by a series
of defeats in the local authority elections.

The first results from the "Super Thursday" elections suggested Labour was
heading for its worst performance since Mr Blair became party leader 10 years
ago. Labour suffered a crushing defeat in Trafford and also lost Swindon and
Tamworth as the Tories regained power in areas which are seen as weathervanes
for the general election. Labour also lost its overall majority in Burnley.

A BBC survey showed Labour on course for its poorest showing in town hall
elections in recent times. Its share of the vote dropped five points since last
year's local elections, while both the Tories and Liberal Democrats were up
three points. If the pattern is repeated when another 73 local authorities count
their votes today, the results would push Labour into third place and provoke
another bout of speculation about Mr Blair's future and demands for him to stand
down before the general election.

As the polls closed last night, Mr Blair, speaking at the end of the G8 summit
in the United States, said that Iraq had "cast a shadow" over the local and
European elections. "In the end you have to face decisions which you think are
right and you have to see them through."

A new opinion poll showed he would lose his huge overall majority if a general
election were held now and that Britain would have a hung Parliament. The YouGov
survey of 6,000 people for Sky News found that the Tories would get 36 per cent
of the votes, Labour 32, the Liberal Democrats 18, the UK Independence Party
(UKIP) seven and other parties seven.

These figures would wipe out the 165-strong majority Mr Blair won at the
previous election. Labour would win 327 seats (down 86), the Tories 257 (up 91),
the Liberal Democrats 46 (down six) and other parties 29, while UKIP would not
win a single seat. But with Labour as the largest party, Mr Blair would remain
Prime Minister.

Mr Blair was convinced Labour's support would revive in time for the general
election, after Iraq had been turned "into a better place, as I believe it
will". Labour's record would then stand it "in pretty good stead". He added that
the Tories and Liberal Democrats had not presented any policies that gave him
concern during the recent campaign. Mr Blair said he would tell the
Parliamentary Labour Party's meeting on Monday: "It is important that we see
through difficult decisions necessary to make our country strong and make the
world a safer and more secure place. We have to stick to our decisions."

Labour officials predicted "very poor" results. One Labour source said: "There
is a backlash over Iraq. It is not confined to Muslims and professional workers
inside the M25. It is hurting us among working and middle-class people, too."

The Liberal Democrats gained control in Pendle. Their leader Charles Kennedy
said last night: "The early signs for us are extremely encouraging."

But there was some welcome relief for Labour when two opinion polls suggested
last night that Ken Livingstone was on course for victory in the London Mayoral
election, the result of which will be announced tonight. That would provide a
crumb of comfort for Mr Blair, vindicating Labour's decision to readmit him to
the party in an attempt to head off a humiliating defeat in the capital, where
Mr Livingstone won as an independent four years ago.

Labour is hoping some of the pressure on Mr Blair will be relieved on Sunday,
when results to the European Parliament are announced. It hopes that UKIP will
eat into the Conservative vote, giving a headache to Michael Howard and putting
a question mark over the Tories' ability to run Labour close at the general
election.

Elections 2004, pages 4-6

Leading article, page 30

Anthony Sampson, page 31

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              123 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

ELECTIONS 2004: FIRST UKIP COUNCIL SEAT SENDS WARNING TO TORIES

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 290 words


JOHN CORNFORTH became Britain's first UK Independence Party (UKIP) councillor
when he scored a surprise win in Hull.

He received just 3 per cent of the vote when he stood for the anti-European
Union party in the 2001 general election.

But after six recounts, and threats of a legal challenge, Mr Cornforth narrowly
captured the Derringham ward with 945 votes from an independent councillor.

He said: "The people of Hull have had enough of the same people being
responsible and are looking for new blood."

UKIP won its seat in a city where Labour and the Liberal Democrats vie for
political power. It is represented in the Commons by John Prescott, the Deputy
Prime Minister.

But its breakthrough will also send a warning signal to the Tories, who will
fear that UKIP could win over disillusioned Conservatives.

The victory will further raise the morale of UKIP, which is hoping to win its
first seat in the London Assembly today. It also expects to increase its number
of Euro-MPs from three to as many as 12 in the European Parliament results to be
declared on Sunday.

Roger Knapman, UKIP's leader, said early today: "We're taking votes from all
three traditional parties."

The Green Party, which was also predicting a rise in its share of the vote, made
early gains in Watford and Oxford and held its first seat in Manchester.

A spokeswoman said: "We think we are going to increase the number of Green
councillors by a third and are confident of significantly increasing our number
of Euro MPs."

But Respect, the alliance of anti-war, Muslim and socialist groups, is not
expected to score any electoral successes. It has had to compete for the "Iraq
vote" with the Liberal Democrats and the Greens.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              124 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

ELECTIONS 2004: ELECTION RESULTS

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 247 words


METROPOLITAN BOROUGHS

KNOWSLEY

Boundary Change

LD, 11; Lab, 52

Lab, No change.

ROCHDALE

Boundary Change

C, 11; Lab, 24; LD, 25

NOC No change.

NON-METROPOLITAN BOROUGHS

BARROW-IN-FURNESS

C, 12; Ind, 2; Lab, 24

Lab, No change.

BURNLEY

LD, 11; Lab, 21; Ind, 3; C, 4; BNP, 6

Lab, lose to NOC.

CARLISLE

Ind, 1; C, 20; Lab, 24; LD, 7

NOC No change.

CHELTENHAM

C, 15; LD, 18; Lab, 2; Ind, 5

LD, lose to NOC.

CHESTER

Ind, 1; Lab, 17; C, 20; LD, 22

NOC No change.

CHORLEY

C, 20; Lab, 21; Ind, 3; LD, 3

NOC No change.

CONGLETON

LD, 14; Lab, 2; C, 25; Ind, 7

C, No change.

ELLESMERE PORT & NESTON

C, 12; LD, 2; Lab, 29

Lab, No change.

HARROGATE

LD, 21; C, 29; Ind, 4

C, No change.

SOUTH LAKELAND

Ind, 2; C, 20; LD, 22; Lab, 8

NOC No change.

WEST LANCASHIRE

Lab, 25; C, 29

C, No change.

LINCOLN

LD, 1; Lab, 25; C, 7

Lab, No change.

NUNEATON & BEDWORTH

LD, 1; C, 11; Lab, 22

Lab, No change.

PENDLE

C, 11; LD, 30; Lab, 8

LD, gain from NOC.

PRESTON

Soc All, 1; LD, 10; C, 18; Lab, 24; Ind, 4

NOC No change.

TAMWORTH

Ind, 1; Lab, 13; C, 16

C, control new council.

UNITARY AUTHORITIES

KINGSTON-UPON-HULL

UKIP, 1; C, 2; LD, 24; Lab, 27; Ind, 5

NOC No change.

NORTH EAST LINCOLNSHIRE

C, 15; LD, 16; Ind, 4; Lab, 7

NOC No change.

SOUTHEND-ON-SEA

Ind, 2; C, 33; LD, 7; Lab, 9

C, No change.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              125 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

ELECTIONS 2004: LIVINGSTONE EXPECTS TO LOSE SUPPORT IN LONDON ASSEMBLY

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND MARIE WOOLF Ken Livingstone may have to work with a
smaller power base in the London Assembly, if his campaigners' fears are
realised Kieran Doherty; The Tory mayoral candidate Stephen Norris leaves with
his wife Emma after casting his vote Alex Ekins

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 757 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE is expecting to have his wings clipped even if he retains his
post as Mayor of London when the result of the capital's elections are announced
tonight .

Senior Labour sources admit that Labour is likely to lose seats on the London
Assembly, which monitors the Mayor's performance, calls him to account and,
crucially, can amend his budget. At present, Labour and the Tories each have
nine seats, the Liberal Democrats four and the Green Party three.

Opinion polls have suggested that the new-look assembly that will emerge after
yesterday's elections will have nine Tories, seven Labour members, five Liberal
Democrats, two Greens and two members from the United Kingdom Independence Party
(UKIP). In theory, that would allow the other parties to amend Mr Livingstone's
annual budget, because it requires the support of two thirds of the 25 assembly
members.

One ally of Mr Livingstone said: "We expect to lose two or three seats in the
assembly. We hope to retain the mayoralty but we could find our room for
manoeuvre limited by the new assembly. It is going to get harder."

Although Mr Livingstone's standing in the polls dropped after the rejoined the
Labour Party earlier this year, his opposition to the Iraq war may have
insulated him from the "Iraq backlash" facing Labour in yesterday's local,
European and London elections. But Labour's candidates for the assembly may be
hit harder by the "Iraq effect".

One Labour source said: "London is a marginal between Labour and the Tories. We
would expect the Tories to bounce back and the Liberal Democrats to make some
advances."

Labour is cautiously optimistic that Mr Livingstone, who won the post as an
independent four years ago, will see off a late challenge by the Tory candidate
Steve Norris. But, on Wednesday, a survey by YouGov suggested that, after second
preference votes were taken into account, Mr Livingstone (51 per cent) had only
a tiny lead over Mr Norris (49 per cent) among those certain to vote.

A shock defeat in the mayoral race would be a disaster for Tony Blair, who is
hoping victory in the capital might soften the blow from the poor results
expected in the local and European elections. The polls closed at 10pm last
night after voting took place in 144 of the 387 local authorities in England,
with 4,807 of the country's 19,727 council seats being contested.

In Wales, all 1,264 seats on the 22 councils were fought. Ninety-three
authorities were counting the votes last night but 73 delayed their counts until
today. There were no local elections in Scotland this year.

The feedback to Labour from its grassroots workers yesterday was gloomy. "We
think we are going to do very poorly in the local elections," said one Labour
source. Some officials predicted Labour's share of the town hall vote could fall
below that of the Tories and Liberal Democrats.

Labour was bracing itself for an advance by the Liberal Democrats in its
northern heartlands. Another Labour source said: "There is a backlash over Iraq
and it is not confined to professional workers inside the M25. It is hurting us
among working- and middle- class people too."

Allies of Mr Blair are bracing themselves for another "wobble" over his
leadership and calls by some critics for him to stand down before the general
election expected in May. "It's going to be a very difficult couple of days,"
said one adviser.

However, Labour is hoping for some relief when the results of the European
Parliament elections are announced on Sunday night after voting finishes in all
25 EU member states. Although Labour is not expecting gains, it is hopeful that
the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) will eat into the Conservative
Party's vote, giving Michael Howard a bloody nose and relieving some of the
pressure on Mr Blair.

The Prime Minister will address Labour MPs on Monday in an attempt to face
head-on any criticism of Labour's performance in yesterday's contests. He will
hold his monthly Downing Street press conference next week and is due to make a
speech on his "forward agenda" for public services to show that the Government
has not run out of steam.

Mr Blair will highlight five-year plans on health, education, crime and
transport due to be unveiled at the end of this month. Aides deny the moves will
be a panic reaction to disappointing election results, insisting they have been
planned for months. "We had to wait until there was a window after the elections
before moving ahead on new policies," one said.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              126 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

ELECTIONS 2004: LIVINGSTONE SET FOR NARROW RE-ELECTION AS LONDON MAYOR

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND NIGEL MORRIS The Tory mayoral candidate Stephen Norris
leaves with his wife Emma after casting his vote Alex Ekins

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 705 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE is on course to be narrowly re-elected as Mayor of London but
Labour support across the capital is in retreat, according to a poll released
last night.

The YouGov internet survey of London electors gave the Mayor 35 per cent of
first-preference votes, increasing to a likely 53 per cent when second
preference is taken into account.

His nearest rival, the Conservative Steve Norris, looks set to win 31 per cent
of first preferences, rising to a final 47, according to the poll. The official
result of the capital's elections will be announced tonight

A separate Mori poll predicted a comfortable victory for Mr Livingstone.

In the elections for the London Assembly, the survey for Sky News gave the
Conservatives 32 per cent of the vote, well ahead of Labour on 24. The Liberal
Democrats were on 19 per cent, with the UK Independence Party (UKIP) on 10, the
Greens on 8 and the other parties on 7.

Ahead of the results, senior Labour sources admitted that the party was likely
to lose seats on the Assembly, which monitors the Mayor's performance, calls him
to account and, crucially, can amend his budget. At present, Labour and the
Tories each have nine seats, the Liberal Democrats four and the Green Party
three.

Last night's poll suggested the new-look assembly that will emerge after
yesterday's elections could have nine Tories, seven Labour members, five Liberal
Democrats, two Greens and two members from UKIP, which barely registered in the
previous London elections.

In theory, the new assembly make-up would allow the other parties to amend Mr
Livingstone's annual budget, because it requires the support of two thirds of
the 25 members.

It also carried a warning to the party that between 10 and 20 Labour MPs in
London, a key political battleground, could be vulnerable in the general
election expected next year.

One ally of Mr Livingstone said: "We expect to lose two or three seats in the
assembly. We hope to retain the mayoralty but we could find our room for
manoeuvre limited by the new assembly. It is going to get harder."

Although Mr Livingstone's standing in the polls dropped after he rejoined the
Labour Party, his opposition to the Iraq war may have insulated him from the
"Iraq backlash" facing Labour in yesterday's local, European and London
elections. But Labour's candidates for the assembly appear to have been hit
harder by the "Iraq effect".

Mr Livingstone's apparently strong showing could also indicate that his flagship
congestion charging policy has widespread approval across the capital.

But the Conservatives will be heartened by the growth in support for Mr Norris
since he became their Mayoral candidate four years ago.

The Liberal Democrats, who had scored a stunning parliamentary by-election
victory in Brent East last September, will be disappointed that their candidate,
Simon Hughes, failed to enthuse the voters.

One Labour source said: "London is a marginal between Labour and the Tories. We
would expect the Tories to bounce back and the Liberal Democrats to make some
advances."

Last night's surveys suggested that Labour's cautious optimism that Mr
Livingstone, who won the post as an independent four years ago, will see off a
late challenge by Mr Norris was well placed.

The party had been rattled by a survey on Wednesday which predicted that, after
second- preference votes were taken into account, Mr Livingstone (51 per cent)
had only a tiny lead over Mr Norris (49 per cent) among those certain to vote in
the election.

A shock defeat in the mayoral race would be a disaster for Tony Blair, who is
hoping victory in the capital might soften the blow from the poor results
expected in the local and European elections.

w The Tories last night held on to a Hackney Borough Council seat in a
by-election.

Voters in the New River ward elected the Conservative candidate Harvey Odze as
their new councillor, but there was a 2.4 per cent swing to Labour since the
2002 council elections.

INTERNET POLL

On first preferences: Livingstone (Lab) 35% Norris (Con) 31% Hughes (Lib Dem)
18% Others 16%

After redistribution of votes: Livingstone (Lab) 53% Norris (Con) 47% SOURCE:
YOUGOV

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              127 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

ELECTIONS 2004: MINORITY PARTIES BANK ON RISE IN VOTE SHARE

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE AND MARIE WOOLF George Galloway with his wife Amineh
Abu-Zayyad after voting at Streatham, south London Michael Stephens/PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 232 words


MINORITY PARTIES such as the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) and the
Greens are expecting to see a big increase in their share of yesterday's overall
vote, in what is being interpreted as a protest against the Tories and Labour.

UKIP is on course to increase its seats in the European Parliament four-fold,
according to projections that suggest heavy losses for Labour and the
Conservatives. Based on a Gallup survey conducted before polling yesterday, the
predictions highlight the spectacular rise of the Eurosceptic party, suggesting
its current three seats will be quadrupled to 12.

The Greens are also expecting a rise in their share of the vote. "We think we
are going to increase the number of councillors by a third and are confident of
significantly increasing our number of Euro MPs. We generally come out lower in
the polls than on election night," a spokeswoman said.

While the Tories are set to win the largest number of European seats, they are
also likely to be the biggest casualties of the rise of UKIP, slumping from
their current 37 to 23, according to the poll. Labour, now the second-biggest
bloc, will fall from 28 to 20, in what would be a significant rebuff to Tony
Blair.

Bob Worcester of the polling organisation Mori predicted the elections would be
"a muddle" that would not "tell us what is going to happen in a general
election".

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              128 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

ELECTIONS 2004: VOTERS TURNED OFF' BY NEGATIVE CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 525 words


LABOUR'S CAMPAIGN for the European and local elections may have "turned off"
voters, according to viewing figures for the party's election broadcasts.

The Tories' four broadcasts were watched by 51 million people, while Labour
attracted 40.5 million, according to the Broadcasters' Audience Research Board
(Barb). During the Tory broadcasts, 1.3 million people switched off or changed
channels (2.5 per cent of the audience), while 1.7 million turned off during
Labour's (4.3 per cent).

The figures fuelled Tory allegations that Labour ran a "negative" campaign based
on personal attacks on Michael Howard. The Tory leader featured in all four
Labour broadcasts, one of which was devoted to his record as a government
minister to a background of the song "My Way."

In contrast, Tony Blair did not appear in any of Labour's broadcasts. The Tories
described him as the "invisible man" of the campaign, claiming that his absence
showed that he had become an electoral liability. A Tory source said: "The
viewing figures suggest voters don't like personal attacks. We tried to say
something positive but Labour did not. The figures are interesting in that
context."

Despite the claims, both main parties had problems during what some MPs regard
as a lacklustre campaign. The Tories found themselves on the back foot after the
unexpected surge by the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP).

In his first electoral test since becoming Tory leader last November, Mr Howard
faced a dilemma over whether to harden his party's line on Europe to combat the
threat from UKIP. Such a course was urged by some Tory MPs and Lord Tebbit, the
former party chairman, while five Tory peers lost the party whip after saying
they would vote for UKIP.

Senior Tories deny there was a "wobble" in the Shadow Cabinet about whether to
toughen the party's stance on Europe. "The only debate was what to say about
UKIP, whether to ignore it, acknowledge it or attack it; we opted for the middle
course," said one official.

The Howard team insists it is playing a "long game", aimed at the general
election, even if it suffers a setback in yesterday's elections. It is trying to
learn lessons from William Hague's decision to "play the Europe card" at the
2001 general election after the party's strong performance at the last Euro
elections two years earlier.

"We are not going to make the same mistake," said one Tory source. "The general
election will be decided on the big three issues of the economy, health and
education. Europe will be a long way down people's list of priorities by then."
Labour, too, had internal critics of its campaign, which barely mentioned Europe
or local government issues and was slow to get out of the starting blocks.

"When it began, I found it hard to detect any real strategy," one minister said
yesterday. "We said a lot about Michael Howard and the threat of Tory cuts' but
we didn't say much about ourselves."

With a low turnout expected, the strategy of both parties was to mobilise core
supporters rather than appeal to the floating voters who will be in their sights
at the general election.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              129 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

LETTER: GERMAN STEREOTYPE OF EUROPHOBIC BRITISH

BYLINE: MICHAEL STORM

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 228 words


Sir: I write to assure John Wright (letter, 7 June) that he's not alone in being
irritated and puzzled by the weird Europhobic tone of current political
discourse in this country. I find it impossible to reconcile this with the fact
that each year more Britons are spending more time in mainland Europe. This
experience must surely demonstrate that the French, Dutch and Italians have not
ceased to be French, Dutch and Italian. Yet people readily assent to the
proposition that British "identity" is at stake.

Where does this Europhobia originate? Could it be a post-imperial hang- up; if
we can't run things, we'd rather not be involved? Or is it the impact of EU
legislation? Most of this has had the effect of strengthening the rights of
workers and consumers, and protecting the environment. This is disliked by some
businesses. A powerful press, owned and dominated by people who are neither
British nor Europeans, has enlisted the unthinking support of those who see
international relations in flag-waving and drum- banging terms.

I've just returned from travelling in the Netherlands, Germany and Austria,
where European election posters are plentiful ("a strong Bavaria in Europe" etc)
and where people are politely baffled by the incoherent venom of Ukip and
others, in posterless Britain.

MICHAEL STORM

Cheltenham, Gloucestershire

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              130 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

LETTER: GERMAN STEREOTYPE OF EUROPHOBIC BRITISH

BYLINE: JENNIFER PACK

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 89 words


Sir: H Trevor Jones asks why Ukip puts up candidates for a European Parliament
it doesn't support (Letters, 7 June). Given that Robert Kilroy-Silk was quoted
in The Independent last week as saying he is "not going to be bogged down by the
European Parliament", and will "spend as little time there as possible", I would
like to ask whether, if he were to be elected as one of the MEPs representing my
area, he would refuse to accept the salary for a job he does not intend to do.

JENNIFER PACK

Leasingham, Lincolnshire

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              131 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

BLAIR FACES A PINCER ATTACK IN SUPER ELECTIONS: BLOODY FRIDAY;
 LABOUR BRACED FOR HAMMERING BY LIB DEMS IN CITIES AND TORIES ARE ALL

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 548 words

HIGHLIGHT: VOTE: Charles Kennedy; ALL SMILES: Mr Howard and wife Sandra after
voting yesterday; HOPE: Ken Livingstone; D-DAY: Voter enters polling station in
London yesterday for first big test since 2001 general election Picture: AP/JOHN
D McHUGH; VOTE: Ukip's Kilroy Silk with granddaughter Seraphina in Bucks


TONY Blair last night faced a battering from all sides in the Super Thursday
elections.

As polls closed in the council, London and Euro elections, party chiefs feared
they would be hit by a Tory advance in the counties and Lib Dem gains in cities.

One senior figure predicted Labour would lose up to 500 of the 6,084 seats up
for grabs and see their share of the vote fall to below 30 per cent.

There are fears the party could even be squeezed into third place if the Lib
Dems cash in on the anti-war vote at Labour's traditional inner-city areas

A party source said: "We expect it to be bloody.

"If we can stem the losses to 300 seats we will be doing very well but it could
be as high as 500.

"What we will not do, though, is hide away. We will show we still have a
programme which is radical and relevant to Britons."

The gloom was compounded by claims of widespread vote-rigging among postal
voters.

But while Labour was expected to suffer in the local polls, the Tories are
likely to be dealt a body blow in the European elections.

Leader Michael Howard was bracing himself for a surge in votes for the far right
United Kingdom Independence Party, fronted by shamed TV presenter Robert Kilroy
Silk. The results, due on Sunday, could leave the Tories floundering behind a
group who want Britain out of the European Union.

A senior Tory source said: "We think the local elections will be fine, London
will be close but Sunday might be difficult.

"We're not making predictions. We will see what it brings."

In the race for London mayor, polls last night put Labour's Ken Livingstone and
Tory challenger Steve Norris neck and neck in a closer-than-expected contest.
The results are due this evening. In the council elections, being announced
overnight and today, several key weathervane councils could be won by the
Tories.

Those such as Harrogate, Trafford, Coventry, Walsall and Birmingham are targets
for Tory leader Michael Howard.

The Lib Dems could take control of Newcastle, Sheffield and St Alban's councils.
And Labour fear losing control of Leeds, Cardiff, North Tyneside, Wolverhampton
and Reading.

The Liberal Dems are expected to capture more than 100 seats.

Any fewer than 50 will be rated as a failure to capitalise on Mr Blair's
unpopularity in the wake of the Iraq War.

But Labour chiefs are confident they will be on course for a third general
election victory.

Mr Blair is planning a rallying cry to MPs on Monday to say it is business as
usual once the dust settles after today's expected losses.

Mr Howard and his wife Sandra cast their votes in their local polling station at
Lympne, Kent.

The PM posted his in from London before heading to the US for the G8 Summit.

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy and wife Sarah voted in South London. Until today
Labour held 2,737 seats up for grabs, the Tories 1,426 and the Lib Dems 1,139.

The rest were occupied by the minor parties.

A BBC poll last night revealed Mr Blair's personal ratings were falling. Only 39
per cent of people said he was trustworthy, compared with 51 per cent last year.

But on the economy Labour was holding up well. The same number as last year - 47
per cent - said the party could be trusted to run Britain's finances.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              132 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

LABOUR COULD LOSE 500 SEATS..KEN & NORRIS CLOSE: BLOODY FRIDAY;
 BLAIR IS DEFIANT AS HE HEADS FOR AN ELECTION BATTERING BUT HOWARD IS

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 547 words

HIGHLIGHT: ALL SMILES: Mr Howard and wife Sandra after voting yesterday;
LAGGING: Kennedy; CLOSE: Livingstone; D-DAY: Voter enters polling station in
London yesterday for first big test since 2001 general election Picture: AP/JOHN
D McHUGH; VOTE: Ukip's Kilroy Silk with granddaughter Seraphina in Bucks


TONY Blair was in a defiant mood last night despite facing a battering at the
Super Thursday elections.

As polls closed in the council, London and Euro elections, Labour chiefs feared
they were being hit by a Tory advance in the counties and Lib Dem gains in
cities.

One source predicted a "bloody Friday" in which the party would lose up to 500
of the 6,084 seats up for grabs and see their share of the vote fall to below 30
per cent.

But Mr Blair dismissed the results and said there was no threat from the other
parties.

Speaking as he left the G8 Summit in Sea Island, Georgia, he admitted Iraq had
cast "a shadow" over the campaign.

However, he added: "I have not noticed any big arguments coming back from any of
the other parties.

Of the local elections, the party source warned: "If we can stem the losses to
300 seats we will be doing well but it could be 500."

The insider spoke amid claims of widespread vote-rigging among postal voters.

Early results showed the Tories were set to win Trafford in Greater Manchester.

The BNP was expected to lose seats in the North West.

A late exit poll put Labour's share of the vote at 32 per cent - behind the
Tories on 36 per cent while the Lib Dems were doing worse than expected on 18
per cent.

But while Labour was expected to suffer in the local polls, the Tories are
likely to be dealt a body blow in the European elections.

Leader Michael Howard was bracing himself for a surge in votes for the far-right
United Kingdom Independence Party, fronted by shamed TV presenter Robert Kilroy
Silk.

The results, due on Sunday, could leave the Tories floundering behind a group
who want Britain out of the European Union. A senior Tory source said: "We think
the local elections will be fine, London will be close but Sunday might be
difficult."

In the race for London mayor, polls last night put Labour's Ken Livingstone and
Tory challenger Steve Norris neck and neck in a closer-than-expected contest The
results are due this evening.

At the council elections, being announced overnight and today, several key
weathervane councils could be won by the Tories.

Apart from Trafford, Harrogate, Coventry, Walsall and Birmingham were all
targets for leader Michael Howard.

The Lib Dems are expected to capture more than 100 seats.

But Labour chiefs are confident they will be on course for a third general
election victory.

Mr Blair is planning a rallying cry to MPs on Monday to insist it is business as
usual once the dust settles after today's expected losses.

Mr Howard and his wife Sandra cast their votes in their local polling station at
Lympne, Kent.

The PM posted his in from London before heading to the US for the G8 Summit.

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy and wife Sarah voted in South London. Until today
Labour held 2,737 seats up for grabs, the Tories 1,426 and the Lib Dems 1,139.

The rest were occupied by the minor parties.

A BBC poll last night revealed Mr Blair's personal ratings were falling. Only 39
per cent of people said he was trustworthy, compared with 51 per cent last year.

But on the economy Labour was holding up well. The same number as last year - 47
per cent - said the party could be trusted to run Britain's finances.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              133 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

LABOUR COULD LOSE 500 SEATS..KEN & NORRIS CLOSE: ROW OVER RESULTS IN PRESCOTT
HOMECITY

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS AND JAN DISLEY

SECTION: 1 Star Slip Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 362 words

HIGHLIGHT: SUPPORT: Mr Hain backs poll


A COUNCIL election result in John Prescott's home city of Hull was challenged
last night amid claims it was affected by the postal ballot fiasco.

After six recounts a seat was won by the anti-Europe UK Independence Party.

But other councillors vowed to launch a court fight because of the voting
shambles.

Earlier, Downing Street promised a full probe into vote-rigging claims.

The post-only votes in the North West, North East, East Midlands and Yorkshire
and Humberside were beset with problems and fraud claims.

Emergency polling stations were set up in Bolton when thousands of people failed
to get ballot papers.

And police made two arrests for alleged electoral fraud in Oldham where men were
said to have offered to "look after" ballot papers.

Labour was also accused of breaching rules by urging activists to set up bogus
ballot boxes for late postal votes.

Many ballots are expected to be declared void because of the complexity of
identity forms that must go with them.

In Burnley, police will quiz 60 voters over a suspicious number of proxy votes
they received. And there were reports of party supporters going door-to-door
offering to collect blank papers.

Downing Street said there would be review of the postal votes experiment.

A spokesman for the Prime Minister said: "We need to see how the system has
worked."

But Commons Leader Peter Hain insisted it was "the biggest exercise in spreading
democratic opportunity anywhere in Britain and probably anywhere in the world".

He added: "I would say absolutely emphatically that the instances of complaint
and malpractice are tiny compared with 14 million people voting from the safety
and comfort of their own homes or having the opportunity to do so."

But the Tories' Oliver Heald warned of "fraud, intimidation and sheer
incompetence".

And he demanded a statement on how the Government planned to address "the
fistful of ballots fiasco".

Labour MP Bruce George urged a review. He said: "I'm not suggesting the whole
system is bent.

"But whole elections can be won or lost in a handful of constituencies. The
complacency gets right up my nose."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              134 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

THE SCURRA

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 540 words

HIGHLIGHT: ACTION: Straw


A NASTY case of "computer misuse" - ogling at dodgy websites and sending crude
emails, in other words - has broken out at Jack Straw's Foreign Office.

Some 72 formal warning letters have been sent to Straw's staff who've been
nabbed using their computers to view more interesting things than Foreign Office
work. And 34 bods have been "disciplined".

On top of that, the FO adds: "We have taken disciplinary action on two occasions
as a result of identifying emails containing offensive language. We have also
taken disciplinary action against two officers for browsing inappropriate
websites."

Crusading Lib Dem MP Steve Webb, who is urging the government to crack down on
"computer misuse", tells me: "The Foreign Office says it has this matter under
control but I doubt it.

"Other government departments don't have such a severe problem. The solution
lies in having a filtering system and proper supervision. Don't you wonder where
the staff find the time for this sort of thing?" Yes.

PROMOTING his paperback version of A Royal Duty, Paul Burrell found himself
locked into the HBO studios in New York doing more than 30 back-to-back "live"
interviews via satellite for breakfast shows across the States.

When the weary butler asked if every author had to endure such arduous
repetition, the HBO producer replied: "No, not at all. The last time I saw a
schedule as busy as yours was when President Carter was in the chair."

UGLY scenes in Oxford the other night, when the UKIP bus carrying Robert
Kilroy-Silk managed to upset a bunch of cyclists by running into their bikes.

The double-decker stopped on Issley Road, just yards from the running track
where Roger Bannister broke the four minute mile, and as Kilroy chatted to the
group the bus rolled forward into their two-wheelers.

"One dragged his bike out of the way before subjecting Kilroy to a tirade of
four-letter abuse," I am told.

The perma-tanned politician made a speedy getaway and the cyclists have no plans
to make an official complaint about their scratched bikes.

CHARLES Kennedy - the man who would be Prime Minister - received extremely poor
treatment when he pitched up for a Channel 4 interview earlier this week.

Annoyingly, the Lib Dem leader was told that the studio's green room (where he
has previously enjoyed pots of black coffee) was being used as an edit suite.

So Kennedy suffered the indignity of being whisked to the back of the canteen
and told to sit down next to the meat fridge, where the powder puff was applied
to his face of broken vessels.

Worse. Watching the interview from the newsroom, Channel 4 staff made childish
remarks about Kennedy's reputation as a whisky lover. The unidentified person
sitting beside them and cringing at every bitchy remark was - they might like to
know - Kennedy's spin doctor.

THE future Queens of Europe have come up with a charming way to make their
Spanish counterpart feel less left out. Princess Maxima of Holland, Princess
Matilde of Belgium, Princess Mette-Marit of Norway and Princess Mary of Denmark
all have names - as you'll have noticed - beginning with the letter M.

As a result, they have now christened Spain's Princess Letizia, "Metizia".

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              135 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 11, 2004

RED KEN READY TO CLING ON

LENGTH: 150 words


LEFTY Ken Livingstone was last night set to cling on to his crown as London
Mayor.

Exit polls gave Red Ken 53 per cent against Tory challenger Steve Norris's 47
per cent.

Mr Livingstone's expected win came despite sky-high council taxes and the hated
congestion charge.

It would be a huge relief to Tony Blair who welcomed Mr Livingstone back to the
Labour Party only three months ago.

But in the London Assembly vote, online polls suggest his party is heavily down.

They put Labour on 24 per cent, the Tories on 32 per cent, Lib Dems 19 per cent,
UKIP 10 per cent, Greens eight per cent and others seven per cent.

Labour also looked likely to lose more than 100 council seats across the country
as voters turned away over the Iraq War and failing schools and hospitals.

Tory chiefs were expecting a boost in northern town halls from where they had
almost disappeared.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              136 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 11, 2004

LABOUR ROUTED IN TOWN HALL VOTE, SAYS POLL

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson, Deputy Political Editor

LENGTH: 385 words


Tories predicted to get 36%, Blair 32%

LABOUR suffered a stunning defeat in yesterday's Super Thursday elections,
according to a shock poll last night.

And if the vote is repeated in the next GENERAL election, Tony Blair's huge
Commons majority will VANISH.

Labour would capture just 32 per cent of the vote and Michael Howard's Tories a
giant 36 per cent. Lib-Dems would get 18 per cent.

The way the votes are spread across the country would mean Labour would have 327
MPs -down 86 -and the Conservatives 257 -up 91.

The PM would be left leading a hung Parliament as his 161-seat majority
evaporated, according to the shock Sky News survey following the town hall and
Euro elections.

The Tories' share of the vote would be larger than Labour for the first time in
a decade.Charles Kennedy's Lib-Dems would lose six seats, leaving them 46 MPs.

Last night Mr Blair admitted defeat in the local polls as he braced himself for
a drubbing.

He blamed anti-Iraq war protests for an expected heavy loss of councillors. He
said at the G8 summit in Georgia, USA: "Iraq and the worries over Iraq have been
a shadow over our support -but in the end you have to take decisions that are
right and you have to see them through."

Sky's YouGov poll of 7,000 people who voted in yesterday's triple whammy
elections -including the fight for London mayor -is a massive boost to Tory
fortunes.

And it is a startling wake-up call to Labour high command that support for Mr
Blair appears to be haemorrhaging throughout England and Wales.

Last night Tory chiefs were privately jubilant at the first piece of good news
they have enjoyed for years.

One senior official said: "If this is even half-way true we would be on the way
back to power."

Mr Howard was all smiles earlier as he went to vote in Kent with wife Sandra.

But his delight will be dented on Sunday night when it is revealed the UK
Independence Party have stolen MEP Euro seats from the Tories.

The Sky poll gave the anti-Europe party seven per cent.

Labour figures dismissed the Sky survey publicly -but in private they are deeply
worried about the result.

A hung Parliament would mean Mr Blair would have to team up with the Lib-Dems to
form a coalition.

Or he would face defeat in every Commons vote.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              137 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 11, 2004

PM'S POLL BLOW

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson, Deputy Political Editor

LENGTH: 164 words


TONY Blair is today bracing himself for a bloody nose in town hall elections.

Labour are tipped to lose more than 100 councillors in a protest against the
PM's failure to boost schools and hospitals.

Voters are also growing disenchanted with Mr Blair, who was dubbed the
"invisible man" during the campaign for yesterday's elections.

Many refused to vote altogether in an alarming sign that people feel ignored by
politicians. The PM is banking on London Mayor Ken Livingstone clinging on to
his crown for another four-year term despite a late surge of support for
Conservative rival Steve Norris. Tory leader Michael Howard was hoping to cash
in on Labour's woes in town halls nationwide. But his party was expected to lose
votes to the UK Independence Party in the European Parliament elections.

Results for the London Mayor and the 4,807 council seats are expected tonight.
But the result of Euro elections will not begin to filter through until Sunday
night.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              138 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 11, 2004

KEN POISED TO CLING ON

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson, Deputy Political Editor

LENGTH: 374 words


He'll win mayor race with 35%, says poll

KEN Livingstone was last night set to cling on to his crown as London Mayor.

Red Ken would receive about 35 per cent of first preference votes, compared to
31 for Tory Steve Norris and 18 for Lib-Dem Simon Hughes, according to an online
poll.

In the second round run-off -when second preferences are taken into account Mr
Livingstone should beat Mr Norris 53 per cent to 47 per cent, according to the
YouGov survey for Sky News.

However, in the London Assembly vote, the poll suggests Labour's vote is heavily
down to 24 per cent -with the Tories on 32, Lib-Dems 19, UKIP 10, Greens eight
and others seven.

That would give Labour seven seats -down three -with the Tories unchanged on
nine and the Lib-Dems up two on five.

The Greens would lose one seat and hold two while the United Kingdom
Independence Party -which wants to withdraw from the EU -would win its first two
seats.

Mr Livingstone was so desperate in the run-up to the vote that he went on a
walkabout in the heart of London's Soho on Wednesday night to win the pink vote.

His win was expected to come despite sky-high council taxes and the hated
congestion charge. It would be a huge relief to Tony Blair who welcomed him back
to the Labour Party only three months ago after his earlier expulsion.

It eased the pain of the PM's bloody nose from yesterday's Super Thursday's town
hall and Euro elections across the country.

Mr Livingstone repeatedly called for President George Bush to face war crimes
trials over the Iraq liberation.

And he promised to hammer Londoners with higher taxes -and widen the failed
congestion charge experiment.

Worried

Before last night, one opinion poll suggested Mr Livingstone was running
neck-and-neck with Mr Norris.

Defeat for "Red Ken" would have been a major setback for Tony Blair.

The PM overcame opposition from his deputy John Prescott and Chancellor Gordon
Brown to re-admit Mr Livingstone to the party after he successfully stood as an
independent in 2000.

Meanwhile, it's expected the Tories will suffer on Sunday night when results
from European elections are announced. The UKIP are expected to steal MEP seats
from the Conservatives.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              139 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 11, 2004

DON'T EXPECT TOO MANY FIREWORKS

BYLINE: Sergei Platt

SECTION: SCOTCHA; OPINION

LENGTH: 463 words


JUST one thing before we throw in our lot with the Strolling Chessboards of
Croatia on Sunday - don't hold your breath, as they're not as exciting as they
were in World Cup '98, when they finished third.

In fact, under the 70-year-old grimster Otto Baric they have practically built
the Balkan Wall, keeping seven clean sheets in 10 qualifying games. When it
comes to hell-for-leather footy, you don't get a lotto with Otto. Truly, he is
the Zagreb Strangler.

THE sudden flurry of Croatian tops in Scotland could be as much a fashion thing
as our campaign, because they do look a treat. Ironically, the last time I saw
one was in a dirt-poor African village, where a barefoot boy sported one,
together with the name SUKER on the back - surely the farthest-flung Croatia fan
yet.

YOU could hardly move yesterday for voters stampeding to get to the Euro
election.

There was a little old lady in front of me at our polling station and I swear
that when she put her folded voting slip into the ballot box I HEARD IT LAND.

I'VE got an awful feeling the wallaby found dead by a roadside in Islay is a
horrible sex game gone wrong. There is surely no other explanation.

INTERESTING story about the Rector of Bath Abbey, Simon Oberst, being defrocked
for adultery with three women. I suppose each of them referred to him as "her"
Oberst, which would be how you would address an SS Colonel.

I'D have loved to have voted for the UKIP horse-whisperer from Kelso.

Funny thing about horse-whisperers...your average nag must be a little short on
conversation - the price of hay, a stone in the hoof, things like that.

Surely the whisper you DO want is: "Lucky Jim, 3.15 at Kempton. On the nose."

ONCE again the name of a racing greyhound has betrayed the humble roots of their
owners.

The dog called Carl that was stolen from an Edinburgh kennels is the latest in a
long line of low-class names - the best of which is still unquestionably the
mutt which was a favourite at Walthanstow dog track, called Finish Me Off.

DR JOHN "Let Them Eat Tabs" Reid would know all about that, with his wittering
about smoking keeping the lower classes happy.

Exactly the same idea Russia applied to vodka. But they kept it SO cheap.

New Labour has never gone easy on the smoker. So they could be twice as happy.

Simple.

Ronni's got Nancy impression licked. BUST-MONSTER Ronni Ancona's portayal of
Nancy Dell'olio last night was so convincing you could almost imagine her in 20
years sitting in a Naples street in a black dress with her arse hanging over a
stool.

and finally..GREAT news from the Secret Bunker. Once Ronald McDonald was out
they found Lord Lucan riding Shergar down an underground passage.

SERGEI PLATT

s.platt@the-sun.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              140 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

Postal voting system needs fraud check, officials say

BYLINE: Jill Sherman, David Charter and Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 975 words


* Blair admits cost of Iraq war as Labour suffers in heartlands

The Government came under mounting pressure to introduce laws to combat
electoral fraud yesterday as Tony Blair braced his party for heavy losses in the
local, European and London elections.

Both the Electoral Commission and the Electoral Reform Society demanded
immediate steps after a Times investigation uncovered widespread allegations of
fraud, votestealing and intimidation.

But as the polls closed last night, the Government was still trying to defend
the system with turnout figures which showed significant increases on the last
European election in 1999 and on last year's council polls.

In all four all-postal ballot regions -the North West, the North East, Yorkshire
and Humber and the East Midlands -turnout was 35-37 per cent, compared with
19-22 per cent in 1999. Across the country, turnout appeared to be up on last
year's council elections possibly because of the combination of different polls.

However senior Labour figures were talking down the prospect that a higher
turnout would benefit the party amid signs of a protest vote against Tony
Blair's leadership.

An analysis of early results by the BBC showed that Labour had lost 4 per cent
of its support since last year's local elections, the Conservatives had gained 3
per cent and the Liberal Democrats 2 per cent.

Breaking with his usual policy of not commenting on domestic issues while
abroad, Mr Blair used a press conference after the G8 summit to admit that the
Iraq war had dogged Labour's elections campaign.

"Iraq and the worries over Iraq have been a shadow over our support, but in the
end you have to take decisions that are right and you have to see them through,"
he said. In a swipe at the Conservative and Liberal Democrat campaigns, Mr Blair
added: "Yes we have had criticisms of the Government but I don't think in the
course of the campaign that either of the other parties have articulated
anything in terms of policy or vision that gives me political concern."

Senior Conservative sources were confident that the underlying trend in the
elections pointed to a Tory revival. They conceded that the shine has been taken
off Michael Howard's first elections as leader by the UK Independence Party, but
believe that many voters would come back to them in a general election.

The Liberal Democrats made the first gain of the night, winning the hung council
of Pendle, Lancashire, and were expected to hold Liverpool with a greater number
of seats. But the Lib Dems lost control of Cheltenham, which became a hung
council.

Labour gained Stoke-on-Trent and retained Manchester despite a strong Lib Dem
challenge, but lost Burnley, where postal votes greatly increased turnout, and
Oxford, where the Greens gained four seats in a hung result. The Tories gained
Brentwood, Rossendale, Trafford and Tamworth.

Kingston-upon-Hull gave the UK Independence Party its first local councillor in
England and Wales but the defeated Independent was expected to mount a legal
challenge on the ground of problems with the postal ballot.

John Prescott's £21 million mass postal-ballot experiment was undermined
yesterday by a fellow Labour MP, Gordon Prentice, who said that postal votes
should be abandoned for the autumn referendums on regional assemblies if
yesterday's elections were found to be "seriously contaminated".

The Conservatives called for compulsory postal ballots to be abandoned for the
referendums. They also said that many candidates were likely to dismiss the
results as invalid, because of postal delays and malpractice.

The two electoral organisations called for individual registration in future
elections so that signatures on ballot forms could be checked against signatures
registered before the campaign.

The Electoral Reform Society also recommended that it should be illegal for any
party to handle blank ballot papers, a practice which The Times found
commonplace in the North West and Yorkshire and Humber.

"We will be looking at electoral fraud as part of our evaluation of the pilots
which starts next week," a spokeswoman for the Electoral Commission said. She
said that the review would look at whether its code of practice had worked and
if there was need for further laws. She emphasised that the commission would
recommend individual registration rather than household registration to avert
fraud.

A spokesman for the Electoral Reform Society supported the call for individual
registration but said that steps should also be taken to ensure that the police
took electoral fraud more seriously. He said that many people thought they could
get away with fraud because the police often did not pursue investigations.

In the Commons, Oliver Heald, the Shadow Leader of the House, said that "fraud,
intimidation and sheer incompetence" were marring the all-postal ballots. "We
need an urgent statement setting out how the Government intends to address what
is now being called the 'fistful of ballots' fiasco," he said.

Peter Hain, the Leader of the House, insisted that postal ballots were no more
prone to fraud than traditional voting. But there were widespread reports of
postal ballots having not arrived or been returned. In addition, tens of
thousands of postal ballot papers were spoilt because witness signatures were
not completed.

A MORI poll for ITV showed Ken Livingstone was this afternoon set to be re
elected Mayor of London, with an 8 per cent lead over Steve Norris, the Tory.

Elections, pages 10-12 Leading article and Letters, page 25

STATE OF PLAY

Local election gains and losses at 2.30am:

Councils:

Conservative 15 (+2)

Labour 10 (-2)

LibDems 2 (0)

NOC 10 (0)

Seats:

Conservative 360 (+43)

Labour 472 (-97)

LibDems 271 (+53)

Other 46 (-5)


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              141 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

Why a quarter-point rise counts a lot

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 540 words


Forget the UKIP, postal voting and all the other distractions of recent weeks.

By far the most important event of the election campaign happened at noon
yesterday when the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee announced an
increase in interest rates of a quarter of a point, for the second month in
succession.

This will probably have had only a very limited impact on yesterday's elections
because many people will either have voted earlier or have been unaware of the
decision when they went to local polling stations on their way home.

The real impact will be in the longer-term. Interest rates have now been raised
four times in the past eight months, by a full point up to 4.5 per cent. And no
one expects this to be the last of the increases.

Of course, these figures seem small by past standards, when interest rates were
in double figures and changes were often of a point or more, rather than just a
quarter point.

Until recently, mortgage payments were still a much lower share of disposable
incomes than in the early 1990s.

But for voters, the relative matters as much as the absolute. A rise of about a
quarter in mortgage rates, and eventually in payments, will make a sizeable dent
in bank balances.

Admittedly, the current rises partly offset earlier declines, but rates are now
at their highest level since November 2001. And, as the high levels of household
debt show, many people took out loans when rates were lower.

The increase in rates is the counterpart, and consequence, of the house price
boom and the strength of the economy. But a cut in disposable incomes directly
produced by higher mortgage rates and indirectly by a less buoyant economy could
make voters less optimistic.

The Treasury points out, fairly, that economic conditions are much more benign
than in the late 1980s and 1990s, and the necessary slowdown may be easier to
achieve than a decade ago. But economic adjustments are seldom smooth.

The International Monetary Fund said recently that the sharp rise in house
prices risked "an asset price bubble and the likelihood of a sharp price
correction". A fall in house prices could have a big economic and political
impact.

The IMF estimates that a 10 per cent drop in prices is, on average, linked to a
0.5 per cent fall in consumer spending.

All this amounts to high political stakes, particularly for Gordon Brown. He
well knows that Labour's re-election strategy rests on a continuing strong
economy, low unemployment, low inflation and interest rates, and rising real
incomes. Mr Brown's claims to have avoided "stop-go" and to have confounded the
gloomy warnings of forecasters must be felt to be true if Labour is to offset
voters' worries over Iraq and disenchantment with a Government in power for more
than seven years.

Elections are always much more than just "it's the economy, stupid" (the famous
slogan of the first Clinton campaign in 1992). But maintaining the "feel good"
factor is a vitally necessary, if not a sufficient, condition for a Labour third
term. The Monetary Policy Committee may affect a lot more than the future rate
of inflation as it decides over the next few months how much farther to raise
interest rates.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              142 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

A victory for precedent and expectations TIM HAMES COMMENTARY

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 584 words


THE two main parties in British local elections are not Labour and Conservative
but precedent and expectations.

They shape how the votes cast are viewed by election analysts and then presented
to the public. This means that the ballot and the interpretation can sometimes
have an Alice-in-Wonderland relationship with each other.

A governing party can lose hundreds of seats and scores of councils but still be
deemed to have performed relatively effectively. An opposition party can roll up
substantial gains right across the country but then be informed by the media
that it has failed because the theoretical proportion of the national vote that
it is calculated to have obtained is not enough to win a secure majority in the
House of Commons.

The power of precedent and expectations was evident last night as the first
results were recorded. By any absolute standard, Labour did not have a
comfortable evening. The Tories seized the key council of Trafford, thus
regaining at least a toe-hold in the North of England.

But much as the quarter-point increase in interest rates yesterday had been
expected and "priced-in" by the financial markets so some form of drubbing for
Labour had been expected. As governments invariably suffer badly in mid-term
elections, the critical issue was how much punishment Labour would endure and
whether it would be more or less than had been predicted a month ago.

The early suggestion last night was that Labour will emerge battered but just
about still breathing after all the votes in all these elections -local and
European -have been counted. The drift away from the Government when compared
with when the European election last took place (1999) and the same council
seats were fought (mostly 2000) did not appear to be on the scale that should
prompt Cherie Blair to make discreet calls to Pickfords. It was awful, painful
and ugly, but not quite catastrophic.

Labour has plainly lost backing since the 2001 general election but it has moved
in several directions. A little has shifted to hard-left groupings such as
George Galloway's Respect, a larger movement is likely in London towards the
Greens, the Liberal Democrats siphoned off more votes in the North of England,
while the Tories looked stronger in more affluent areas of Britain.

The inability of the Tories to monopolise the anti-Labour vote is significant.
At the most extreme, one internet poll, for Sky News suggested that if there had
been a general election yesterday, Labour would have won only 32 per cent of the
votes but 327 seats in the House of Commons, just three shy of an overall
majority.

That fringe parties appear to have gained support in places that they contested
offers a clear hint for what may happen in the European Parliament on Sunday.
The United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) must now be expecting at least 10
per cent of the vote (anything less would be deemed disappointing in the light
of recent expectations) and may push towards something closer to 15 per cent in
the end. Much of that support would come from those usually inclined to vote
Conservative. Labour could thus "win" the European poll with a miserable 25 per
cent of the vote.

This set of elections is so unusual that to conclude anything from them would be
reckless. That does not mean that sweeping conclusions will not be drawn.
Whatever else occurs, precedent and expectations will together win these
mid-term elections as they do whenever they happen.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              143 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

UKIP if you want to but Howard must stay awake

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: Features; 24

LENGTH: 919 words


The Conservatives need to keep their eyes on the floating voter

WILLIAM HAGUE'S biggest electoral disaster was his victory in the European
elections of 1999. No, you don't have to read that again. I meant it.

Mr Hague interpreted his success in that poll as vindication for his strident
Eurosceptism. So confident was he of its appeal that he repeated it at the next
general election with catastrophic results.

Next week there will be many in the Conservative Party who will turn on Michael
Howard and demand that he toughen the Tories' stance on Europe. They will point
to the rise in support for the United Kingdom Independence Party at the expense
of the Conservatives. That proves, they will argue, that the Tories are not
Eurosceptic enough. The party has to move to the Right to win those voters back.

It proves nothing of the sort. For the electoral significance of European
elections is nil. People vote quite differently in these contests than in a
general election, as they are a costless excuse to have a kick at politicians.
No power changes hands and no difference is made to people's lives. In the
latest Populus poll for The Times, no fewer than 49 per cent of Tory supporters
said they were considering voting for a party that they would never vote for in
a general election. In other words, they don't need to be won back. They will
return anyway.

What matters much more electorally is the effect that a hardline stance on
Europe would have on former Tory voters who switched to Labour in 1997 and 2001,
and on floaters who have no particular affiliation. These are the people whom
the Tories need to work harder to win back.

And a jarringly Europhobic position would do nothing but alienate these voters.
It would remind them of the Hague and Duncan Smith years. It would make the
Tories look as unattractively obsessed with the issue as they were during the
disastrous Major years. The party would seem weird and out of touch again.

For Europe is not a subject that the British care about very much. When Populus
asked last month which was their most important issue, the EU languished at ten:
bottom of the table. Only 8 per cent of respondents put it top of the list.

Nor are voters as vehemently Eurosceptic as is often assumed. Indeed, asked
which party would do the best job when it came to relations with the EU, Labour
had a seven-point lead among all voters, and a 13-point lead with swing voters.
That hardly betokens a rabid anti-Europeanism.

A substantial minority of Britons want to leave the EU altogether. They will
have voted UKIP yesterday but will probably vote Tory in a general election.
There is also a smaller minority of outright Europhiles, who welcome further
European integration. But the most commonly held position is a moderate
Euroscepticism, a feeling that Britain should remain in the EU but that the
institution should allow more flexibility, so that different states can move at
different speeds. For instance, most Britons want to stay in the EU but stay out
of the euro.

This is exactly the stance that Michael Howard has adopted. He understands that,
in an EU of 25 states, it will often be hard to achieve unanimous agreement. The
integrationists' response to this problem is to adopt more qualified-majority
voting, in which the majority of states can force dissenters into integration
that they don't want. The Conservative leader advocates that the majority go
ahead, but leave the minority alone.

A two-speed Europe is to be welcomed not deplored. It is as sensible as a dual
carriageway. Speed freaks don't want to be stuck behind a laggardly Austin
Allegro driver any more than the elderly Sunday motorist wants to be forced to
put his foot down. If we, in Britain, prefer to potter at our own pace in the
slow lane, we should be able to do so.

Mr Howard is right to argue that this model will lead to a far more harmonious
EU.

Forced integration leads to Europe insisting on policies that voters don't want
and that their governments don't want. No wonder they then feel angry and
powerless. It is a dangerous recipe for political alienation. Mr Howard's "live
and let live" approach, by contrast, allows governments to stay in tune with
voters and the EU to be seen as benign, not a threat.

Where the Tory leader is on more slippery ground is in his demand that Britain
repatriate powers over fishing, overseas aid and the social chapter. Many voters
would like to see the country regain control over its fishing waters. Most of us
would love to opt out of the Common Agricultural Policy, too. But these are
wholly impractical suggestions and therefore merely populist. To win powers back
from the EU involves treaty changes, to which all 25 member states have to sign
up. What chance is there of that?

The Conservative leader, if he wants to be taken seriously as an alternative
prime minister, has to show that he understands the realpolitik of European
decision-making. In his principled opposition to the new EU constitution and the
euro, he has enough distinctive policies to mark his party out against Labour
and the Lib Dems. He does not need to discredit himself by promising a change
that he could probably never deliver.

The broad thrust of Mr Howard's European policy is already enlightened and
politically astute. Even if he gets a drubbing on Sunday, he must not lose his
nerve and harden his stance. That would be the electoral disaster.

maryann.sieghart@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              144 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

What Tony Blair, the latter-day Reagan, told me on the 07.42 to Birmingham

BYLINE: Nick Robinson

SECTION: Features; 24

LENGTH: 760 words


"DON'T vote Labour, it'll only encourage him." That, I put to Tony Blair, was
what many former supporters would be thinking. He had the grace to laugh but, to
my surprise, did little to try to contradict me. He shrugged and said this was
what happened to prime ministers in their second term.

We were talking on the 07.42 to Birmingham en route to his last campaigning
stop.

I pressed on. They think you were wrong about the weapons, wrong about the
United Nations, and many voters are furious that there's been no apologies or
resignations. Again, there was no attempt to counter this. They'll have to ask
themselves, he declared, whether the world's a safer place with or without
Saddam.

I had a sense of a man who's prepared for his fate and is frankly not all that
bothered. He was in reflective mood. Reflecting on the shooting of the BBC team
in Saudia Arabia -further evidence, as he saw it, of the rightness of the War on
Terror. He reflected, too, on Ronald Reagan's death the night before. Look, he
declared, at how differently he is regarded now from how he was seen when in
office. The implication was clear. Like Reagan, he believes, that history will
be his true and fairest judge. The electorate will come round in the end.

* THE more I reflected on the idea that Blair was a latter-day Reagan the more
extraordinary I found it. This was the Tony Blair who, when Reagan was
President, was a member of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament; the man who
told The Guardian when he first ran for Parliament in 1982 that the "older
generation...has not yet awoken to the real nature of the threat, the 'warfare
of the end game'." This was the man who laughed along with CND's spoof Gone with
the Wind poster. Reagan was portrayed as Clark Gable carrying Margaret (Vivien
Leigh) Thatcher away from the mushroom cloud of a nuclear weapon in "The film to
end all films...She promised to follow him to the end of the earth. He promised
to organise it". Listen now to what Blair says about Reagan: "His statesmanlike
pursuit of more stable relations with the Soviet Union helped bring about the
end of the Cold War. He will be greatly missed by his many friends and admirers
on this side of the Atlantic." Listen to his deputy John Prescott who made a few
Labour MPs splutter when as Blair's stand-in at PMQs he declared that President
Reegun (we knew what he meant) had made "a contribution to world peace". When
you watch Reagan's funeral in Washington's National Cathedral don't mistake
Blair's presence as just observing the usual courtesies. Blair believes that,
just like him and George W. Bush now, Reagan and Thatcher were unpopular but
right. Put it to him that that's not what he used to think and he simply and
disarmingly says "But I was wrong". He now believes that it's his critics who
have "not yet awoken to the real nature of the threat, the 'warfare of the end
game'."

ONE other telling sign of the way the Prime Minister's mind is turning is his
choice of reading matter. He's studying the history of appeasement as set out in
Martin Gilbert's Descent into Barbarism. Do you know, he's told friends, that
Neville Chamberlain actually proposed a symbolic act of disarmament to reassure
the Nazis?!

* WANDERING round Birmingham market chatting to potential voters I realised that
we have become as picky at voting as we are at shopping. Just as we no longer
automatically think of M&S when we need a shirt, we no longer think only of the
Big Two parties when it comes to voting. What's more, we know how to use our
vote to different effect in different elections which is why Sunday's results
for the European Parliament will be so different from today's results for who
runs our towns, schools and roads. I was struck by how many have decided that
politics is something they don't need to buy into at all. Where once non-voters
apologised or lied about their intentions, they now boast about them. It is
those of us who are interested who end up saying sorry for bothering them with
the small and inconvenient matter of exercising their right to decide who
controls their lives.

There's been a shift in the sense of shame. And that is shameful.

* AS A Brummie butcher declared he'd be switching to UKIP as he agreed with
"that Kilroy-Silk" I marvelled at how the BBC has, inadvertently I might add,
shaped these elections. What if the corporation had never dismissed him? On such
decisions does political history turn.

Nick Robinson is political editor of ITV News nick.robinson@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              145 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2004, Friday

EU exit poll tips gains for UKIP

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 323 words


THE UK Independence Party could become the largest Eurosceptic party in the
European Parliament, according to a confidential last-minute poll carried out by
the Parliament.

The UKIP is expected to quadruple the number of seats it has from 3 to 12,
falling only just short of the number of seats the Liberal Democrats are
expected to win.

Its gains will be at the expense of the Conservative Party, which is forecast to
lose more than a third of their MEPs, falling from 36 seats to 23. The Tories
went into the election hoping to maintain their number of seats. Such a dramatic
drop in MEPs would be a devastating result for Michael Howard when Labour's
popularity is plummeting and a general election is thought to be a year away.

It will mean that the Conservatives only just manage to hold on to their
position as the largest British contingent in the Parliament. Last night a
Conservative Central Office spokesman refused to be drawn on the poll. "Let us
just wait and see," he said.

The Labour Party is, however, expected to have suffered only slightly less
severe losses, with its number of MEPs falling from 28 to 20. The only
mainstream party thought to have made gains is the Liberal Democrats, picking up
the anti-war vote to increase its number of MEPs from 11 to 14, although it
remains in third position among UK parties. The British National Party is not
expected to win any seats.

Overall, the poll predicts a doubling of seats held by explicitly Eurosceptic
parties such as the UKIP, from 18 to more than 30. The heavily Eurosceptic
Self-Defence Party of Poland is expected to gain 13 of the country's 54 seats.

* Paul van Buitenen, the Dutch whistleblower whose revelations led to the mass
resignation of the European Commission five years ago has been elected to the
European Parliament on a ticket to combat EU corruption, according to unofficial
final results.

Bronwen Maddox, page 22


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 10, 2004

Howard pledges: I'll cut tax

BYLINE: PAUL EASTHAM

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 429 words


MICHAEL Howard moved to prop up Tory support yesterday by making his clearest
pledge yet to cut taxes if the party wins the next election.

In an eleventh-hour attempt to lure supporters from the United Kingdom
Independence Party, he firmed up promises to put money back in voters' pockets.

Worried that thousands of Conservatives may be defecting to the UKIP over its
pledge to pull Britain out of Europe, Mr Howard produced what he hopes will be
an eyecatching promise.

He used a high- profile appearance on BBC Radio Four's Today programme to make
the pledge.

Mr Howard said that if he entered Downing Street he would reduce the amount the
taxman takes from people's wage packets, while still increasing the overall
amount the Government spends on vital public services.

'It is a question of using the money more effectively and reducing taxation,' he
told the BBC.

'As the economy grows I can increase public spending and public spending has
been increasing every year since kingdom come but at a lower rate that the
country can afford,' the Tory leader said.

'As the economy grows we can begin to cut taxation so people can keep more of
their hard-earned money.' Technically Mr Howard's words did not depart from the
Tory policy outlined by Shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin in February.

Mr Letwin promised to find savings of Pounds 35billion through Whitehall cuts
and still meet Labour's spending plans for hospitals and schools.

He said the Tory 'aim' would be to cut taxes in the longer term, but the tax
reductions may have to wait because Chancellor Gordon Brown's ballooning deficit
meant that paying off debt would be the first priority.

While the Tory leader did not depart from that script yesterday he managed to
convey the impression that the 'aim' of cutting taxes had become more of a
certainty.

Mr Howard told Today he could pull off the economic trick of reducing taxes
while increasing spending because the Tories 'will not waste the money Labour is
wasting' and by gently slowing down the rate of spending growth.

'That will enable us in due course to lower taxes,' he promised.

Mr Howard's pledge on tax appeared to reflect uncertainty over the likely
results of the European elections, to be announced on Sunday.

Polls suggest the Conservative share of the vote could be down from 33 per cent
in 1999 to 22 per cent after a surge in support for the UKIP.

Mr Howard also promised to be tougher in Europe by winning a 'new deal' to
wrestle back control over Britain's fishing and borders.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MICHAEL HOWARD: VOTES BID

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              147 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 10, 2004

For Britain's sake vote Tory today

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 295 words


ON this so-called 'Super Thursday', when millions have the opportunity to vote
in European, council and mayoral elections, there seems precious little sign of
a revival in vibrant democracy.

If polls and pundits are to be believed, voters are sunk in apathy. Iraq still
casts a shadow, while continuing failings in public services add to the
disillusionment. And, it has to be said, all three mainstream parties have
fought a lacklustre campaign.

To make matters worse, the postal votes fiasco threatens to turn the result in
some areas into a farce.

There would, on the face of it, appear to be plenty of excuses for staying at
home or voting in despair for a fringe party that can achieve nothing.

But let us consider, for a moment, the many reasons for refusing to submit to
such negative, can't do defeatism.

If you believe the European constitution is an irreversible step towards turning
Britain into a province of a superstate If you are sick of a Government that
pretends to stand up for the national interest, while doing the opposite If you
are alive to the danger that supporting UKIP will split the eurosceptic vote,
allow Mr Blair to claim a triumph and perhaps even frighten the majority of
moderate sceptics into giving reluctant backing to the federalists If you think
our capital city deserves better than the profligate self-publicist Ken
Livingstone If you think vigorous, thrifty councils should stand up for local
democracy and resist John Prescott's vandalising plans to pour concrete over our
countryside If you believe all or any of these things, then we urge you to take
a stand. Make your voice heard.

And as the best way of fighting for our freedom in Europe and better government
at home vote Tory today.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              148 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 10, 2004

Prescott's head rotated slowly like the turret on a tank

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 666 words


NEXT week is the centenary of Bloomsday, when fans of the cryptic Irish writer
James Joyce celebrate his novel Ulysses. Anyone who has read Ulysses will know
that it is a jumble of words which at first glance appear to be total gibberish.

Westminster organised a tribute to Joyce yesterday. John Prescott was allowed to
take Prime Minister's Questions.

Uh, oh. Word soup. Duck, lads, and be quack about it.

Mr Prescott gets to run the show only occasionally, when Tony Blair is out of
the country (lover boy is in the U.S. this week, having done a runner from the
elections).

The House was far from full. This may have been because MPs were in their
constituencies, canvassing for today's poll. Or it may have been because they
could not bear to witness the pointless slaughter of so many words.

Hansard's admirable shorthand specialists like plenty of notice before a Two
Jags Question Time.

This is the stenography world's equivalent to a Euro 2004 clash with the
reigning champions.

If the Commons dress codes were not so strict, the Hansard folk would enter the
press gallery for a Prescott PMQs wearing gym singlets, sweatbands and rubber
ferrules on their fingertips. Just keeping up with the Deputy Prime Minister's
hot, muddy gush of words is hard enough, let alone making sense of them.

Whole phrases hurtle through the air, breaking up in the atmosphere.

Syllables are split and crunched like atoms in a nuclear scientist's testtube.
The elisions leave you gasping.

So many dropped aitch-bombs.

Mr Prescott had washed his hair for yesterday's occasion.

His inky fringe fell over his brow like bead curtains in the rear window of a
Latin American taxi.

His eyes darted darkly to the thick file of briefing notes on the despatch box.
He scowled, eyebrows forming a mansard roof.

Things began with a tribute to Ronald Reagan, or 'Reegan' as Mr Prescott
pronounced it, perhaps mistaking the late U.S. President for Jack Regan, the
Flying Squad detective played by John Thaw in The Sweeney.

'I must say on my part whatever was said about President Reegan' he began.

Tory MPs: 'Get his name right!

Reagan!' Mr Prescott's head rotated slowly like a tank turret.

He shot his hecklers a dirty look and continued: 'whatever was said about
President Reegan and there was I must say that in fact whatever they said about
at the beginnin' of 'is regime 'e did contribute to the reducin' the weapons of
mass destruction and I think that was a contribution to the world peace ' Take a
breath, man!

' well I people can make judgments but I give you my judgment the best there is
I remember the many cynical comments that were made about that man but 'e
contributed to reducin' some of the cold war I can only give the 'Ouse what my
views is and live with whatever people think about that.' Medical orderlies!
Oxygen! All around him sat Labour MPs, faces taut with worry lest he suffocate
for want of a full stop.

opponent, Michael Ancram, made fair points about the grottiness of postal votes.

The contrast of Mr Ancram's softfluted grammatical precision with Two Jags'
Butch-the-Dog wheezes was comic perfection.

Sentences lay at Mr Prescott's feet, banked trout twitching to death.

Posh Tory consonants pinged uselessly off Mr Prescott's bodywork.

Labour MPs well, in fact just about everyone loved it.

Then Mr Ancram mentioned Europe. Mr Prescott, like a butcher lifting a
pre-severed limb, produced a killer quotation from a recent Tory defector to
UKIP.

The Opposition's Euro policy was like going to McDonald's and asking for lobster
thermidor. 'It would be nice to 'ave it but it's not on the menu,' cried Two
Jags. Everyone roared.

James Joyce, creator of Corny Kelleher and dirty Gerty MacDowell, and Moses
Dlugacz and 'Poldy Bloom, would have enjoyed yesterday.

Imagine if Joyce had ever met John Prescott. It could have inspired a sequel to
Ulysses. God help us all, we were spared

END

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              149 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 10, 2004

WICKED WHISPERS

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 553 words


HELL'S Kitchen star James Dreyfus, right, missed his boyfriend so much during
his twoweek stint on the reality show that he burst into tears when they were
reunited. 'He cried like a baby,' revealed actor Luke Lee, who stars in BBC
sitcom My Dad's The Prime Minister and has been with James for more than two
years. 'It was hard being apart. I thought it was sweet that he chose tuna as
his speciality dish because it's my favourite meal!' Aaaaah.

TURBO-TONGUED Australian scribbler Kathy Lette misses her stint as the Savoy's
writerinresidence. Asked at Tuesday night's Orange Prize for Fiction what she
misses most, Kathy confided: 'The concierge used to do my two children's
homework.'

PEDESTRIANS in London's Berkeley Square could be forgiven for shielding their
eyes from an unexpected glare on Tuesday night as American singer Kelis and her
rapper fiancE Nas arrived for an awards ceremony. Both were sporting gold teeth
braces.

Explained Kelis: 'I love them, I think I sparkle.' Her clip-on braces had the
word 'tasty' imprinted on them, while Nas favoured 'nasty'.

PSSSST!

WHICH gay pop star is stepping out with a rough diamond 40-something musician
from his band?

WHAT'S a young husband for if not to defend his older wife's honour against
critics? Percy Gibson has leapt to the defence of Joan Collins after journalist
Richard Woods mocked the 71-year-old actress's support for the UK Independence
Party. In a letter to the Sunday Times, 38-year-old Gibson accuses Wood of
ridiculing his wife, saying: 'He attacks her career, as if her movies
automatically situate her below the rest of the citizenry in having a political
opinion. Should Woods not be criticising her views rather than her movie
career?'

OH WHAT larks at Tuesday night's Glamour magazine Woman of the Year awards,
where Friends star David Schwimmer canoodled with former S Clubber Tina Barrett,
right.

Girls Aloud's Sarah Harding overindulged at the free bar before wobbling into
the arms of Calum Best, while fellow band member Kimberley Walsh ripped the back
of camp TV presenter Brian Dowling's trousers, exposing his underpants.

Presenter Jonathan Ross infuriated guest Boris Becker by announcing to the
ladies: 'If you want to make a good investment and you don't mind waiting nine
months, Boris Becker is over there and there is a cupboard over here.'

NEW BBC chairman Michael Grade came face to face with the former
Director-General at Thomson Extel's investment awards yesterday. Compering the
awards was Greg Dyke, brutally ousted as BBC boss after the Hutton Inquiry. Dyke
asked a stony-faced Grade, presenting an award: 'How do you like the office?'
ROLY-POLY bon viveur Michael Winner has acquired a body double after he refused
to dress up as a fairy again for a poster campaign for car insurer e-sure. They
hired a lookalike and superimposed Winner's head. Says my mole: 'Michael will be
pleased. The body double is slightly thinner than he is.'

AND FINALLY

ANNA Nicole Smith claims to have enjoyed conjugal relations . . . with a spirit.
Says the pneumatic model: 'He never hurt me and he gave me some amazing sex, so
I have no problem.' Could it perchance be the ghost of her late husband,
89-year-old billionaire J. Howard Marshall II, back from beyond the grave?

END

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              150 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 10, 2004

IF YOU WANT A SAY, VOTE TODAY; TURNOUT FEARS IN TODAY'S POLL

BYLINE: by KERRY GILL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 316 words


SCOTLAND goes to the polls today to vote in the European elections.

There are worries that the turnout could be just 20 per cent or even less,
despite enthusiastic campaigning by all parties.

But while the public couldn't care less about the election, the major parties
are worried.

Labour, the Tories, the Liberal Democrats and the Scottish National Party expect
to lose votes, if not necessarily seats.

The number of Scottish seats in the European Parliament has been cut from eight
to seven, so someone is going to lose out -- very probably Labour going down
from three seats to two. The reduction was caused by the expansion of the EU to
25 nations on May 1.

The minority parties, the Socialists, the Greens and the UK Independence Party
(UKIP), are almost certainly going to do relatively well, even if they do not
win a seat.

The UKIP is expected to bite into the Tory vote while he Greens and Socialists
will also pick up support among fed up Labour voters.

But while the Tories are usually more successful in persuading their traditional
supporters to go to the polling stations, Labour are more vulnerable to the
so-called "apathy vote".

The Nationalists probably have most to lose - a fall in their share of the vote
could prove fatal for the fortunes of party leader John Swinney, already damaged
by attacks from within his membership.

Labour are virtually certain to lose votes due to the usual mid-term protests at
Tony Blair.

And First Minister, Jack McConnell, has had enough on his plate recently without
having to explain away a lacklustre election - even though more than three
quarters of the electorate cannot even be bothered to vote.

There are 10 parties standing in Scotland and a sole independent, Fergus Tait.

The British National Party, despite its small successes in the north-west of
England is unlikely to make any impact.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              151 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 10, 2004

PARTY PROMISES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 346 words


TO HELP readers make up their minds we have asked the biggest parties to explain
what they've got to offer . . .

CONSERVATIVE PARTY EUROPE: The Conservatives put Britain first and rejecting
moves towards a single European state. We want a Europe that creates jobs, not
regulations and that is prosperous, not declining.

LOCAL COUNCILS: Labour and Lib Dem councils mean high council tax and waste.

We will cut waste and get better value for money.

GREEN PARTY EUROPE: The Green Party has proved politicians can be honest,
radical and effective. We are fighting genetically modified food, the single
currency and the occupation in Iraq.

We support local jobs, not big business.

LOCAL COUNCILS: The Greens want to regenerate local economies, improve quality
of life and protect the environment, with "greener" energy and better public
transport.

LABOUR PARTY EUROPE: It is crucial to our prosperity. A Tory Britain would
retreat to the margins of the EU and harm efforts to tackle cross-border issues
like organised crime and illegal immigration that have a direct effect on
British people.

LOCAL COUNCILS: Labour councils tackle issues that matter to people, getting
tough on anti-social behaviour, raising standards in schools, making
neighbourhoods cleaner, greener and safer.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS EUROPE: The environment, international terrorism and organised
crime cannot be tackled by Britain alone. That is why the EU is so important.

Lib Dem MEPs are respected for our dedication to make Europe work.

LOCAL COUNCILS: Lib Dems would scrap council tax and replace it with a local
income tax based on ability to pay.

Pensioners and people on low incomes would be better off.

UNITED KINGDOM INDEPENDENCE PARTY (UKIP) EUROPE: UKIP is the only party calling
for Britain to leave the EU. Only UKIP believes British people should be
governed exclusively by the British parliament at Westminster.

LOCAL COUNCILS: UKIP wants referendums on major local issues, so residents have
the final say on what happens in their communities.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              152 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 10, 2004

IF YOU WANT A SAY, VOTE TODAY; IT'S YOUR CHANCE TO CHANGE THE FUTURE

BYLINE: by MACER HALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 524 words


BRITAIN goes to the polls today in elections that will change the future of the
country.

Pundits fear only a third of voters will bother to take part in the "Super
Thursday" ballots for the Euro and local council elections.

But ignore the apathy - the results DO matter as we choose 78 MEPs to represent
Britain at the European Parliament in Brussels - making decisions that affect
the lives of nearly 500 MILLION citizens of the EU.

And voters will also pick more than 6,000 councillors to run 166 local
authorities across Britain.

Yesterday Tory leader Michael Howard was on the campaign trail, but PM Tony
Blair was with other world leaders at the G8 summit in Georgia.

Here is the Daily Star's special guide to what the elections mean for YOU:

What are today's elections for?

Across Britain, an election is being held for the European Parliament, which
which will have 732 MEPs chosen by voters in 25 countries, to monitor what the
EU gets up to.

It can pass laws on asylum and immigration, health and safety, consumer
protection and even animal welfare.

In many parts of Britain, voters will also get to choose councillors who help
run local services like schools, police, rubbish collection and parking rules.

And in London, the voters will choose the city's mayor. Candidates include the
current mayor, Labour's Ken Livingstone, Tory Steve Norris and Lib Dem Simon
Hughes.

Who is standing?

Labour, the Tories and the Liberal Democrats are contesting almost all seats,
but the outcome is more unpredictable than ever as smaller parties - including
the anti-EU UK Independence Party and the environmentally-friendly Greens - are
expected to make their mark.

Some voters will use the election to protest about Tony Blair's Government and
Iraq.

How can I vote?

Most of the country still has oldfashioned polling stations, but 12million
voters, mainly in the north of England, should have already voted by post in a
major polling experiment.

In council elections, voters put an "X" against the candidate they want and the
result is based on the "first-past-the-post" system, so the candidate with the
most votes gets elected.

European elections are run on the "proportional representation" system - so the
number of votes cast for each party determines how many of their candidates in
each region end up getting elected.

In London, voters have to name a first and second choice for mayor.

Why should I vote in the European elections?

The European Parliament is a very powerful body that takes important decisions
about health and safety, food, working conditions, fishing and farming - even
the length of our working week.

MEPs get a salary of nearly GBP 58,000 and are widely criticised for claiming
big expenses and doing little work.

Why should I vote in the council elections?

Councils spend lots of YOUR money - about GBP 78billion across the UK.

They are in charge of social services and schools - affecting the lives of
millions.

They also make planning decisions that can change an individual's home - or even
the face of a city or the countryside.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              153 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

Howard pledges Tories will cut taxes

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 585 words

MICHAEL Howard gave his firmest commitment yesterday to cut taxes if he wins
power as the political parties made a final dash for votes in today's European,
local and London mayoral elections.

The Tory leader voiced confidence that he would see off a challenge from the UK
Independence Party, which is threatening to cause an upset to all three major
parties in the biggest test of opinion since the 2001 election.

Mr Howard, who has faced criticism over a lack of clarity on Tory policies, said
an incoming Conservative government would ensure public spending rose at a lower
rate than Labour.

"As the economy grows, we can begin to cut taxation so people can keep more of
their hard-earned money. That's the way you get dynamic economies that create
more jobs and better public services," he told Radio 4.

Mr Howard has indicated previously that it is the Tories' ambition and intention
to cut taxes but has been reluctant to give an explicit commitment. Yesterday,
he said that cutting waste and slowing down the rate of spending growth "will
enable us to lower taxes".

He believed his pledge to "fight Britain's corner in Europe" was striking a
chord with voters and declared himself "very confident and optimistic" about the
outcome of the European Parliament and local elections.

"The reaction I am getting on the doorsteps has been very positive. I think we
are going to win," he said while campaigning in Battersea, south London.

John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, tried to highlight the Tories'
discomfort over the UK Independence Party threat.

Standing in at Commons Question Time for Tony Blair, who is at the G8 summit in
the United States, Mr Prescott taunted the Tories, saying: "Why is it all of a
sudden there is so much attention on the European policy? Simply because the
polls are telling them people are not voting Tory - they are going to be voting
UKIP."

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, one of five Tory peers stripped of the party whip after
urging voters to support UKIP, claimed that success today for the anti-Brussels
party would put pressure on Mr Howard to rethink his policy on Europe.

If the UKIP results were good enough, "a lot of my friends in the Conservative
Party will be getting hold of Michael and bashing him up and saying 'Come on
Michael, this is what the people want. Isn't it time we had an honest policy
towards the European Union?' "

Roger Knapman, the UKIP leader, told a news conference, that applications for
membership were coming in so fast that it was impossible to keep up with them.
They had "shot up" from 20,000 to 25,000 in a matter of days and were coming in
from Liberals and Labour supporters as well as the Conservatives.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, said Mr Howard's position on Europe was now
"hopelessly exposed as a result of pandering to the hard-line Europhobes inside
his party and outside".

Tory officials said that Mr Howard had travelled 8,000 miles in the past five
weeks on the campaign trail while Tony Blair had been "invisible" in the same
campaign. Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, said he believed his
party could capitalise on voters' anger and dismay at Labour's record over Iraq,
the environment and the council tax to make gains across the board.

The campaign had uncovered a "seismic shift" among ethnic minorities, where
support for the Government had plummeted because of the Iraq war, and a
significant weakening of Labour's bedrock support in the Northern cities, said
Mr Kennedy.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              154 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

All politics is local: why is it that only the UKIP gets this? If the Tories do
badly, it will be because they didn't speak to the voters, says Stephen Robinson

BYLINE: By Stephen Robinson

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1024 words

As I sat listening yesterday to an interminable exchange between John Humphrys
and Michael Howard on the Today programme, something occurred to me about
today's "super Thursday" elections. I have not received a single piece of
campaign literature pitching for my vote for the European Parliament, the London
mayoralty or the London Assembly.

It is true that, after months of erratic service, postal deliveries have
collapsed entirely in our part of London, and that we have not received any mail
for four days. It is just possible that the candidates have tried to reach me by
post.

But not a single canvasser has come bidding for my vote by telephone or knocking
on the door. None of the candidates aspiring to run the greatest city in Europe
has sought out my views on bicycle lanes or policing policy, or dropped a
leaflet through my letterbox.  "All politics is local" goes the old American
saw, but if you want to see real grassroots democracy in action, you will no
longer see it at work in this country. Our politics are now so detached from the
everyday concerns of voters that they have become entirely abstract.

Londoners wondering how the streets of their city are to be kept clean and safe
are instead treated to Mr Howard talking about what he might do in several
years' time on the European question, if he were to win the next election.

Had a canvasser chanced to knock on my front door, I might have asked, too, if
his party would reverse the transformation of London's streets into one great
slalom course of speed bumps and chicanes. I would have pressed him on why our
rulers fuss endlessly about targets to reduce "speed-related" injuries on the
roads, yet are blithely unconcerned about the huge increase in muggings.

I would have sought his considered view on this week's news that, in the past 12
months, there have been 7,235 assaults - 20 a day - on the London Underground, a
60 per cent increase in just six years. But none of the parties sent anyone to
ask me or my neighbours what I thought about any of this. I might have asked,
too, if there was anything that could be done about our vanished mail
deliveries.

The Tories are in a panic about the surge in support for the UKIP, which is
showing strongly in polls for the European elections and might even win three
seats in the London Assembly, despite the party's studied indifference to the
minutiae of municipal governance. I have to confess that, until I read Charles
Moore's column in last Saturday's Daily Telegraph, I was unaware that our
Conservative MEPs were allied to a federalist grouping called the European
People's Party. (If I am to be strictly honest, I should also add that I had
never heard of the EPP.)

The EPP, it turns out, believes in all sorts of things that I dislike, as an
uninquisitive, hypocritical Euro-sceptic who bores people at dinner parties
about the iniquities of Brussels, yet keeps a flat in Spain. The EPP wants
co-ordinated tax rates across Europe, a European public prosecutor, as well as
silly, pretentious emblems of European solidarity such as a European rapid
reaction force.

The Euro-sceptic view is that the Conservatives are losing support to the UKIP
because of their hypocrisy in forging an alliance with unabashed federalists.
They may be right, and Mr Howard would seem to agree, because he has spent much
of the campaign trying to rebut that argument. But I just don't believe that
voters are sitting at their breakfast tables thinking they would vote for that
scintillating Tory front bench if only it hadn't struck a Faustian bargain with
the EPP. I am not bothered about the EPP now, because Mr Howard, rather
brilliantly, has shamed Tony Blair into holding a referendum on the European
Constitution. I will have my chance to vote against European federalism in the
next parliament; today, I want to vote about issues closer to home.

Voters are transferring allegiance to the UKIP because they are cross that the
Conservatives are not speaking to them on issues that concern them. Here is a
revealing fact overlooked by Tory rebels: only half of the UKIP's supporters say
they share the party's commitment to withdrawal from the EU.

The UKIP manifesto might not have been pushed through your front door, but you
can find it on the internet. Withdrawal from the EU is predictably top of their
demands, along with a pledge to relieve "overcrowding", by which they mean
getting tough on immigrants and asylum seekers. The overall tone of their push
for power is rather nasty, and clearly pitched to appeal to the sort of golf
club bore who talks about "our Commonwealth cousins".

But a great deal of the UKIP's programme might be broadly characterised as
militant libertarianism, albeit cast in a series of rather pompous "Freedoms".
The UKIP demands Freedom from "bureaucratic politicians", and their
paraphernalia of compulsory ID cards, red tape on business and rising taxes.
Then there is the Freedom from Political Correctness, with a tart reminder that
there is no "correct" view on multiculturalism or foxhunting.

The UKIP is speaking directly to voters enraged by how the Tories are complicit
in propping up New Labour's ever-expanding nanny state. Consider these news
items this week: a 76-year-old lollypop lady is suspended by an Essex council
after she remonstrates with a 10-year-old child over a dropped crisp packet. In
Henley-on-Thames, a woman bleeds to death in the arms of her neighbour while the
police conduct a one-hour "risk assessment" to see if it is safe for them to
enter the premises where she was shot.

Voters do not understand how we have come to this; no one knows why police have
suddenly become just another arm of the Blairite welfare state, and why the
Tories do not protest. They doubt the Conservatives have the nerve to meet this
challenge, as the Tory front bench dithers over whether it will cut taxes or
merely reduce the rate of expansion in the state.

The UKIP is not actually a danger for the Tories, just an early sign of the
coming backlash against New Labour. If only Mr Howard could see that this is not
a threat, but an opportunity.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              155 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 10, 2004

APATHY THE REAL WINNER AT POLLS

BYLINE: By Kerry Gill Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 415 words


SCOTLAND, or at least a relatively small percentage of the electorate, goes to
the polls today to vote in the European elections.

There are worries that the turnout could be only 20 per cent or even less,
despite enthusiastic campaigning by all parties. But while the public may be
less than enthralled by the election, the major parties are in a state of
anxiety with Labour, the Tories, the Liberal Democrats and the Scottish National
Party expected to lose votes.

The number of Scottish seats in the European Parliament has been cut from eight
to seven, so someone is going to lose out - very probably Labour going down from
three seats to two.

The reduction was caused by the expansion of the EU on May 1. The minority
parties, the Socialists, the Greens and the UK Independence Party (UKIP), are
almost certainly going to do relatively well as far as the number of votes they
garner, even if they do not win a seat.

The UKIP is expected to bite into the Tory vote, a situation unexpected when
campaigning began. The Greens and Socialists will also pick up support due to
dissatisfaction among Labour voters.

However, the Tories are usually more successful in persuading their supporters
to go to the polling stations. Labour, on the other hand, are most vulnerable to
the so-called "apathy vote". Given recent fears over the rise of the UKIP in the
opinion polls, there could be a last minute rush of Tory voters eager to stem
the UKIP's fortunes.

The Tories' campaign, led by lead candidate Struan Stevenson, has tended to
concentrate on the Scottish fishing industry. While this will play well in the
north-east, the Tories believe that the public throughout the country will be
incensed enough over the Common Fisheries Policy to see the issue as
encapsulating Brussels bullying.

The SNP probably have most to lose.

A fall in their share of the vote could prove fatal for the fortunes of John
Swinney.

Labour simply want the whole process done and out of the way. They are virtually
certain to lose votes and the First Minister, Jack McConnell, has had enough on
his plate without having to explain away a lacklustre election.

A Socialist, a Green or a UKIP candidate reaching Brussels? It is a possibility
given that supporters of each party will tend to be among those attending
polling stations, but a remote one.

There are 10 parties standing in Scotland and a sole independent, Fergus Tait.
The full results will be issued on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              156 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 10, 2004

LABOUR 'COULD COME FOURTH'; POLL PANIC

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 305 words


PANICKING Labour chiefs were last night plotting a relaunch for Tony Blair amid
growing fears voters will administer a vicious drubbing to the Prime Minister
when they go to the polls today.

One insider even predicted support was so low that Labour could come fourth in
the European elections.

The party may not do much better in the local elections, with insiders
predicting just 26 per cent of the vote while the Tories could scoop 40 per cent
when the final results come in tomorrow. The Liberal Democrats could get 23 per
cent.

Some Labour strategists were last night even contemplating Ken Livingstone being
edged-out by Tory Steve Norris in the race to be elected Mayor of London.

One poll published yesterday showed Mr Norris closing in on a prize which seemed
far beyond him only days ago.

Senior Government strategists have held a series of meetings on how to deal with
what one predicted would be "the mother of all kickings from the voters".

Mr Blair himself chaired a special meeting in 10 Downing Street on Monday
afternoon to put in place a three-pronged relaunch plan for next week starting
on Monday with an address to Labour MPs urging them to keep faith with his
leadership.

The next day he is likely to host his monthly Downing Street press conference.
Finally, he will make a major policy speech on Wednesday or Thursday, unveiling
new ideas for public service reform.

"Losing the London Mayoral election would be a disaster. It would be a massive
embarrassment to the PM, " said one Government insider, who was also concerned
about the European election result, which will be counted on Sunday night. "It
sounds alarmist, but we might even come fourth behind the Tories, the Liberal
Democrats and Ukip in the European elections. These results are going to be
really bad for us."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              157 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 10, 2004

Labour fears third place in today's elections: Labour fears third place in
elections

BYLINE: Michael White and Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 610 words


Labour is braced for a third place hammering in today's local council elections
in a result that is likely to see Tony Blair pay for his tough stance over the
Iraq war.

However, the prime minister's embarrassment may only last 48 hours until Michael
Howard suffers similar discomfort on Sunday night when the counting of the
European election results is expected to show that Tory support has been
significantly eroded by the anti-EU United Kingdom Independence party (Ukip).

As politicians intensified last-minute campaigning, a shadow was cast over
today's "Super Thursday" triple ballot by a spate of allegations of electoral
fraud in the experimental postal vote regions.

While John Prescott, the deputy prime minister, urged MPs to "celebrate" the
fact that at least 1m more votes have al ready been cast as a result of the new
system in four English regions, the Conservatives accused the government of
"breathtaking complacency".

Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, predicted a "seismic shift" among
ethnic minority voters angered over the Iraq war.

Meanwhile, Mr Blair is being warned by party strategists that today's ballot
will give him a well-aimed kicking - even as it confirms that Labour remains on
course to win a third general election next year.

Today's poll of 144 of England's 387 councils, plus all 22 in Wales, the London
mayoralty and the European parliamentary elections across 25 member states is
certain to galvanise less than half of Britain's 44m electors to cast their
ballots.

Mr Prescott's officials released data showing that 3,856,000 ballot papers,
representing 27% of the local electorate, had been returned in the four pilot
regions by the end of Tuesday, with two days to go until polls closed.

This compared with a total of 2,870,735 votes cast (20%) in the 1999 European
elections.

But Greater Manchester police confirmed they were investigating allegations of
malpractice, including claims that ballot papers had been col lected by party
activists going door-to-door. Lancashire police are also preparing to question
60 people over suspicions about 170 proxy vote applications in Burnley.

The high turnout will not save Labour from the risk of losing its dominance over
cities such as Newcastle, Cardiff, Manchester and Sheffield in battles with the
Liberal Democrats - and Birmingham, where the Tories are the challengers. Leeds
is also at risk.

Even Ken Livingstone's prospects of a second four-year term as mayor of London
were clouded by a new opinion poll which suggests the mayoral election will end
in a photo finish between Mr Livingstone and the Tory challenger, Steve Norris,
if the turnout is low.

The Liberal Democrats, who have campaigned harder than expected on their
anti-war stance, may also suffer if small parties of both left and right siphon
off voters angry about Iraq or the EU.

The Greens and Respect, the re-badged Socialist Workers Party, are pressing hard
from the left in the south, Ukip, the anti-EU party, appears to be eroding Tory
support in many areas.

According to a YouGov poll for the Evening Standard, Mr Livingstone only holds a
2% lead among voters who are "certain to vote". But he has a much wider lead
among the sections of the electorate who describe themselves as "likely to
vote".

The possibility that the former transport minister, now Jarvis chairman, Mr
Norris, could take power triggered renewed Labour warnings against complacency
among core supporters as well as a fresh scramble for second preference votes.

Elections 2004, pages 10-11

Jackie Ashley, page 24

Leader comment, letters, page 25


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              158 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 10, 2004

Sketch : Prescott triumphs on slippery slopes of syntax

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 592 words


Tony Blair was at the G8 summit, so we had our more or less annual treat - John
Prescott performing at prime minister's question time.

And he wasn't bad. He even scored a bit of a triumph. Hearing our deputy prime
minister trying to speak in clear English is a bit like watching a three-toed
sloth take up line-dancing: it may not be graceful, but you don't half admire
the effort that's gone into it.

He had been coached very carefully. He spoke with great deliberation, as if
there were a full stop between each word or phrase.

"We. Have. The. Right to Vote," he said, speaking about postal ballots.

He had replies custom-made for every Tory MP who had his name down for a
question.

And he had prepared jokes; quite tolerable jokes, and well delivered too.

Of course it does begin to unravel at the edges. On the increase in people
voting because of postal ballots: "6.8%, according to last night . . . let us
celebrate and let us be right that a million more people are going to
participate, have already participated in these elections, it possibly and will
be greater than that, that would be a matter for celebrating."

On Iraq, the puzzling "we now have a satisfactory solution not only to coalition
forces, but also to the Iraqi authorities themselves." Or, "this was released I
think in February and so it is a great deal of fuss being made, it hasn't in
fact been given public release, it was released in February. . ."

However, it's the nature of question time that he has to go off-piste
occasionally. When I last skied, I was so bad I was demoted from the beginners'
class, which sounds impossible but isn't.

Luckily there was an Irish lawyer in this legion of the lost, a delightful man,
built on the same general lines as Mr Prescott.

Whenever he tackled even the shortest, gentlest slope he inevitably ended up in
a heap in the snow, with arms, legs, skis and poles sticking out at all angles
like a child's game of pick-up-sticks.

This is what happens to Mr Prescott. Invited to pay tribute to President Reagan,
he replied: "As you made clear on Monday, the judgment about President Ree-gan,
I must say on my part that whatever was said about President Ree-gan (cries of
"Raygun!" and "get it right!") and there was, I must say that in fact whatever
they said about at the beginning of his regime, he did contribute to reducing
the weapons of mass destruction and I think that was a contribution to the world
peace. . ." And so on, for quite some time.

But then came his great win. Michael Ancram, standing in for Michael Howard,
kept asking him about a document on the future of Europe which the Europe
minister, Denis MacShane, had signed off.

This paper apparently says that President Jacques Chirac will be able to steal
our wives and daughters, keeping them in a dungeon in his chateau for perverted
sex games. Or something like that.

He said, and I paraphrase, that the Tories were running scared of Ukip, which
was why they were being so anti-European.

"I see that is why a Tory peer, Lord Willoughby, a proper Tory, like the hon.
member, a proper lord, he said, I quote, 'expecting to renegotiate the EU treaty
on our terms is like going to McDonald's and ordering a lobster thermidor.' As
he said, 'it would be nice to have it, but it's not on the menu'.

"I don't know what it is about seafood and politics, but I couldn't have put it
better myself."

Victory! The place erupted! He was up on his feet again, and gliding down a
black run to the cheers of the crowds!


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              159 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 10, 2004

Policy and Politics: Elections June 2004: The worst campaign in living memory?:
The main parties' efforts have been seen as mere disaster avoidance, with the
issues sidelined in favour of irrelevancies

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 692 words


It says much for the lack of enthusiasm inside Britain's big parties for today's
elections that Downing Street had to press a reluctant Douglas Alexander and
Gordon Brown into service to organise a drifting campaign.

Mr Alexander, a brilliant analyst of political technique, and the kind of
cheerful self-confessed political anorak who reads bound volumes of Robert
Kennedy's speeches in his spare time, pointed out that his job description was
to run the general election campaign in a year's time. His hands were pretty
full. Possibly fearing a Labour drubbing, he only changed his mind when John
Prescott urged him, in the way only John Prescott can.

With such reluctance at the top of the political establishment it is hardly
surprising that the past month has been a policy and intellectual desert,
probably the worst example of political campaigning in living memory, replete
with self-evident falsehoods, irrelevancies, negativity and non-sequiturs.

True, election campaigns have rarely been occasions for stimulating political
debate. As long ago as 1979, the then Conservative chairman, Chris Patten, put
down a reporter at an election press con ference seeking to ask a follow-up
question with the withering dismissal: "This is not a Socratic dialogue."

But each year the level of democratic debate seems to drop another notch. "These
campaigns seem to be less and less about local government," admits the Labour MP
Andrew Bennett, chairman of the environment select committee. "There is less and
less in national and local papers. Partly due to the postal ballots, there has
been much more focus on the mechanics of the ballots than the record of local
councils."

To many observers this year's elections have been nothing more than an exercise
in disaster evasion by the main parties.

As a result the Liberal Democrats have conducted a campaign almost exclusively
around the issue of Iraq, despite the awkward fact that local government in
England and Wales has little to do with foreign policy. This hasn't stopped the
party trying - to Labour's fury. In Kirklees, a swing council in West Yorkshire,
a Lib Dem leaflet asserted baldly: "All Labour candidates support the war",
alongside a picture of Tony Blair and George Bush.

It quotes Osama Saeed, a spokesman for the Respect-supporting Muslim Association
of Great Britain, saying: "Labour has forfeited the Muslim vote."

Barry Sheerman, the Labour MP for Huddersfield, is contemptuous: "I have seen
pretty poor election leaflets in my time, but this scrapes the bottom of the
same bucket the BNP scrapes."

Yet Labour's record is hardly bolder. The prime minister's political strategy
has been to remove Europe from the campaign by promising to hold a referendum on
the draft constitution at some point in the future. He has not made a single
speech on Europe.

Challenged repeatedly over the shift to scepticism in Britain under his
leadership, particularly the rise of Ukip, Mr Blair has lamely agreed. Downing
Street aides privately admit that they decided to distance the "temporarily
unpopular" prime minister from the Labour Euro-campaign, just as the campaign
has decided to distance itself from him.

Labour also admits it has been hard to get its troops out. "They are more
opposed to war than the electorate," admits a north-west Labour MP. Not that
Labour has had much more to say about local government. Its local elections
manifesto read like a glossy insurance brochure.

At the party's local election campaign launch in a deliberately remote learning
centre in Leeds, Mr Blair's chosen theme was the economy and the new deal,
issues which have little to do with local councils.

At the press conference, Mr Blair was grilled about Iraq and his leadership and
faced precisely one embarrassed question about local government, to which he
gave the answer of a man who had not thought about local government for many
months.

Yet Andrew Bennett argues that for those who care about the palsied state of
local democracy, this could have been a moment of fervent debate about its
powers and funding, and the so-called New Localism.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 10, 2004

Ballot Breakdown: European

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 641 words


What happened last time

William Hague unexpectedly trounced Labour in the 1999 Euro-elections, securing
the best Tory result since 1992 against Labour, which came second to them in
every area but London and the north-east. Low turnout, disillusionment with
Europe and a lacklustre campaign were blamed. The Lib Dems secured a lower
percentage of the vote than in 1994, but went from two to 10 MEPs. Ukip and
Green MEPs were elected for the first time.

1999 Euro-elections:

Conservatives 36% of vote, 36 seats

Labour 28%, 29 seats

Lib Dems 12.7%, 10 seats

Ukip 7%, 3 MEPs

Green 6.2%, 2 MEPs

SNP 27% of vote in Scotland, 2 seats

Plaid Cymru 29.6% of vote in Wales, 2 seats

Turnout: 24%

Whats up for grabs

Major parties can be expected to make much of the fact that the overall number
of seats has been reduced from 84 to 75, plus three in Northern Ireland, to free
up places for the new EU member states.

This puts pressure on candidates, especially those at the bottom of the list who
only narrowly won their seats last time. Experts say that if the last election
result were repeated, the Tories would hold 35 seats, Labour 25, Lib Dems 10,
SNP 2, Plaid Cymru 1, Ukip 2, and the Greens none.

Britain's voters will be among the earliest to vote in the pan-EU elections.
Eighteen of the member states go to the polls on Sunday and all the results must
be held back until ballot boxes have closed across Europe. The UK's results will
emerge after 9pm on Sunday. London aims to be first with its result; Northern
Ireland and parts of Scotland will not start counting until Monday.

The challenge

The Tory chairman Liam Fox raised eyebrows last month when he insisted the party
would keep its 36 MEPs and its share of the vote would go up to 45%.

The rapid rise of Ukip has scuppered such hopes; Tory strategists fear that they
could lose a third of their seats.

Labour has set low expectations: Tony Blair stressed it is mid-term, and that
its campaign has been overshadowed by the "divisive" issue of Iraq. Labour hopes
it will maintain its 28% - equivalent to the level of support gained in 1983
under Michael Foot.

The Lib Dems expect to retain their 10 seats and gain two or more. The Greens
may benefit from the protest vote , increasing their numbers to five or six.

As for Ukip, expectations vary wildly, from 21%-13%. Up to nine could be
possible, with MEPs in the south-west, south-east and east Midlands.

How to tell if it's a good result for the government

Labour's position depends on how the Tories do. Should the Tories poll in the
top 30s, or low 40s, and Labour only poll the 25%-26% predicted, the heat will
be turned up. But should the Tory vote haemorrhage to Ukip, as polls are
suggesting, Labour can turn its fire on Howard and, some psephologists believe,
will be let off the hook."Every Tory vote leaking to Ukip gives Labour a
breathing space" says Professor Colin Rallings of Plymouth University.

If the Tory share of the poll slumps to less than 30%, that would be
"catastrophic" for Mr Howard. He must secure 40% to begin to be in a position to
win a general election. Even if he gets less than the 36% polled by William
Hague, who went on to lose the 2001 election in spectacular fashion, Labour will
be able to depict him as damaged.

What to watch out for

The major surprise appears to have surfaced already: the rise of Ukip which
predicts it will secure extra seats in the south-west, eastern region,
south-east and east Midlands.

The threat of the BNP gaining a seat in the north-west appears to have been
neutralised by Ukip. A question mark still hangs over Respect, which needs just
86,000 votes in London to secure George Galloway a seat, though the anti-war
vote is likely to split between it, the Lib Dems and the Greens


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              161 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 10, 2004

Ballot Breakdown: London

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 676 words


What happened last time

Although the London assembly was to be dominated by a quasi-Labour mayor and the
Labour group, across London on a simple count of the votes the party won fewer
seats than the Conservatives.

Three of Labour's seats came from the proportional top-up list. The Lib Dems
gained from the row over the privatisation of the tube. They described
themselves as Liberal Democrats Against Tube Sell-Off. For the Greens, the
capture of three seats was a high point.

But Ken Livingstone's triumph as an independent over the third-placed Labour
candidate overshadowed everything else.

2000 London elections:

Ken Livingstone, Ind 667,877

Steve Norris, Con 464,434

Frank Dobson, Lab 223,884

Susan Kramer, Lib Dem 203,452

Others 154,515

What's up for grabs

With no local council elections in London this year - although the capital will
choose its complement of MEPs - all eyes will be on the mayoral result.

Ken Livingstone is seeking to win a second four-year term - this time as a
Labour rather than independent candidate.

Watch out too for elections to the London Assembly. A low-profile body so far,
it has the power to obstruct the mayor's ambitions for the capital. Controlled
by Labour for the past four years it has given Mr Livingstone a relatively easy
ride. That might change if, as looks likely, Labour loses control.

Results will come in on Friday. The assembly votes will be counted during the
day with the mayoral victor known by 9pm tomorrow.

The challenge

Ken Livingstone has his fingers crossed that the opinion polls are correct: they
show him ahead of the Tory Steve Norris.

He is hoping that his emphasis on police and bus reforms will be enough to
secure first-preference votes from Labour supporters, but he also hopes to keep
some of the Tory and Liberal votes he picked up last time.

Both Mr Norris and Simon Hughes hope that by portraying Mr Livingstone as
"Blair's mayor" they can associate him with the government's current
unpopularity.

The Iraq war has forced Labour to reassess its expectations in London. The party
will be relieved to keep all of its nine seats on the London assembly. The Lib
Dems and the Greens believe they can benefit by portraying themselves as
steadfastly anti-war. Labour difficulties may be compounded by the existence of
a candidate from Respect.

How to tell if it's a good result for the government

A frightening scenario for the government in London would be waking up on
Saturday to find that the anti-Blair vote, the anti-war vote and voter ennui had
combined, with the result that several assembly seats had been lost and that Ken
Livingstone, hitherto considered unbeatable, had been swept from office.

A lesser version would have Mr Livingstone returned for a second term but with
too few Labour allies on the assembly.

A bad result for the government would see a candidate in the anti-Blairite
Respect party get an assembly seat for a constituency with a high number of
Muslims. The worst-case scenario for all the major parties would be the election
of a BNP member on the London assembly. The party needs 5% of the vote. Last
time it got no further than 2.1% but it has since gained several seats in the
north and south of England.

What to watch out for

Simon Hughes has positioned himself so that if he secures more first-preference
votes than Steve Norris he could garner enough second-preference votes to beat
Ken Livingstone.

The assembly race is thought to be tight in Barnet and Camden, Brent and Harrow
and Enfield and Haringey.

The other variable in the constituencies is Ukip. The party is scoring
particularly strongly in polls and is persuading electors who previously seemed
unlikely to vote to cast their ballots. Many expect them to gain at least one
seat on the assembly.

The other possible effect is that Ukip voters will give Steve Norris its
second-preference votes, giving him a chance of defeating Mr Livingstone if
turnout is low and Labour voters stay at home.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 10, 2004

G2: A cross to bear: Euro 2004 starts this week, and it's impossible to escape
the ubiquitous St George's cross. But does the English flag alienate as many
people as it unites? Sarfraz Manzoor, who once rejected the emblem as racist,
explains why he now flies it with enthusiasm while, right, a range of English
people talk about what the red and white flag means to them

BYLINE: Sarfraz Manzoor

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1154 words


The flag used to make me flinch. Seeing it draped down the window of a terraced
house or tattooed on a sweaty bicep provoked a physical reaction similar to what
the body experiences seconds before being punched. The stomach would knot, the
blood would chill, the heart would race and I would steel myself as I walked
hurriedly past the hated cross of red and white. Those who displayed the flag
were speaking in code, but when I was in my teens and 20s I was sure I
understood what they meant. By flying the flag they were, I presumed, saying:
"This is our flag, this is our country and it will never be yours." Sometimes
the language was coded - as at football matches - and sometimes it was explicit
- on racist marches, for instance - but that bullying message was the same.

What frightened me most was that I believed them to be right. This really wasn't
my country; I was only living here. The racists and the hooligans were only
reminding me of an uncomfortable truth. Each time I saw the flag of St George
unfurled in football stadia, or paraded at National Front marches, was another
reminder of how I was in this country but not of it, and why the flag of St
George could never be mine.

It was a lesson I had been taught at home. Like many first-generation
immigrants, my father had originally come to this country assuming he was going
to return to the country he called home. For him that was Pakistan, and that
presumption of return coloured his sense of patriotism and influenced mine. It
meant that I grew up without feeling that I had a stake in this country, as if I
was walking through my life here without leaving footprints. So, naturally, I
failed the Tebbit "cricket test", and instinctively I supported whoever played
against England. During England versus Argentina (in both war and football) I
supported the South Americans. It was so much easier to want England to lose
than it was to summon the necessary emotions to want them to win. I could have
given you a dozen reasons for why I wanted England to lose - colonial history,
no Asians in the team, the racism of football fans, the other teams played
better - and not one reason why I would want them to win.

I can recall precisely when I stopped fearing and started loving the flag. It
was a damp Friday afternoon two years ago this month. This was the summer of the
Jubilee and the World Cup, and the country was seemingly drowning in St George
flags. The England fans in Japan and Korea had been behaving themselves, Beckham
was still untarnished and - the crowning triumph - England had just beaten
Argentina that afternoon. Walking through the streets of Luton, it was
impossible not to feel euphoric. When I saw the cars with their St George flags
fluttering in the air, when I saw young men drunk on delirium singing for
England, it was not fear that I felt - it was envy. I wanted to feel that I
could join in the jubilation, but I secretly feared that I would be laughed at.
I desperately wanted to wear a T-shirt with the England flag on it, but was not
sure if I was allowed to.

I rang my friend Kate because she was white and therefore was in a position to
give me permission. "What are you calling me for? Of course you can bloody well
wear that T-shirt!" was her considered assessment. Suitably emboldened, I walked
into Burton's and bought a T-shirt emblazoned with the flag of St George. Later
that evening I went out with a group of Asian friends. Luton's pubs and clubs
were packed with celebrating fans. One man was wearing the flag as a cape and
others, my friends included, were wearing plastic bowler hats that had the red
cross painted on to them. That night, as Asians, blacks and whites joined
together, and tunelessly and passionately sang along to Three Lions, I remember
thinking: this is what patriotism could be like if we could defang it of its
nastier elements. I remember thinking: perhaps football can reach places that
politics cannot. But I also remember an Asian friend laughing at the sight of us
all singing for England. When I asked him what he found funny, he replied: "It's
as if, by wearing the flag, we're saying: 'See, we're not that different from
you, please don't beat us up.'"

Two years on and another football competition, and once again the streets are
awash with the England flag. But Euro 2004 arrives at a time when the air is
toxic with the electoral threat of the BNP and Ukip. Since Euro 96 the flag of
St George has been steadily gaining respectability, but there is a clear risk
that it will once again be appropriated by those for whom it represents the
monocultural England they would like to see.

It would be tempting, in the face of this threat, to pull back from patriotism
and leave the flag of St George for the racists. But I think that would be
wrong. Buying the T-shirt with the flag of St George on it was an impulse
purchase; I wanted to take part in the celebrations and, frankly, I liked the
look of it. But it was also something that had taken me 30 years to feel I had
the right to wear. By wearing the flag I am acknowledging that the idea of
returning "home" that my parents' generation had is a myth; this is my home. Too
many second- and third-generation immigrants still live as if they assume they
are leaving, but for me, to live in a country is to have a stake in it and its
symbols.

I cannot pretend that I am an instinctive patriot. There is too much lingering
fear and suspicion that I am trying to gatecrash a party at which I am not
welcome. It is true that the flag of St George carries the baggage of an
imperial and intolerant past. And yet I feel passionately that the way to combat
those feelings is to confront them.

Since the attacks on New York and Washington there has been a greater pressure
on British Muslims to demonstrate their loyalty, to prove their patriotism in
the face of a suspicion that such loyalty does not exist. That was what my
friend was referring to in that Luton bar: the suspicion that the reason some
Muslims were waving the flag was to protect themselves from the accusation of
not being patriotic. Perhaps that is true - but I think there are more positive
reasons for wearing the England flag.

My patriotism is based not on blind faith or intolerance but on reason and
rationalism. I support England - in football, if not cricket - because England
is my home. I like the country that we can be, and each time I or anyone on the
progressive left wears or displays the flag, we are helping to change England,
to make it more a country that can revel in benign and inclusive patriotism, and
less a nation of racists and bigots. When I was younger I agreed with George
Bernard Shaw on patriotism; now I am convinced he was wrong. Patriotism need not
be left only to the scoundrels. But it requires others, and not only Muslims, to
say: this is also our country, and this is also our flag.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

YOU BRITISH, THE ELECTIONS, AND YOUR SPECIAL BRAND OF EUROPEAN HATRED;
  PAMELA SCHLATTERER, UK CORRESPONDENT FOR GERMAN TV, REPORTS FROM THE

BYLINE: PAMELA SCHLATTERER

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE

LENGTH: 1003 words


MARGRET, THE barmaid at The Avenue pub on Barnet High Street, north London,
hands Matt, 20, his pint. He seems surprised to find a German journalist in his
local but says he plans to give his European vote to the UK Independence Party
(UKIP). "They're going to steal our currency," he says darkly, adding that being
British is about independence and being different.

The pub is festooned with 20 St George's flags - it appears the only European
event that really matters here is Beckham vs Zidane. "I would never allow a
German flag to be put up here," Matt smiles at me apologetically. By way of
explanation, he says: "National pride".

I wonder if Matt knows, or cares, that Margret is Polish and arrived four weeks
ago, shortly after the enlargement of the EU. She knows few people and is
sometimes homesick.

Voters in Barnet will go to the polls in the European and mayoral elections
today. Barnet's votes for London's nine MEPs will be counted with those from
across the capital. As yet, there are no UKIP MEPs for London but, according to
the pundits, that is about to change. There are already three nationwide, and
any more could force the Tories to take an increasingly tough line on Europe.

UKIP was busy on the streets of London yesterday. Its mayoral candidate Frank
Maloney, the boxing promoter, was playing to safe stereotypes - bowling about on
a Routemaster bus, munching fish and chips as he went.

Outside London, there are other elections taking place. In England and Wales,
more than 6,000 council seats are up for grabs. All across the Continent, 25
nations are going to the polls to shape the European Parliament, including
voters from the 10 new member states. In all, about 350 million are eligible to
vote. Only about half are expected to but Britain is likely to lag well behind
the average.

And it is the European dimension that interests me. I am here to try to discover
what the British think about it. The longer I trudge up and down the dreary main
road on a hot afternoon, the more I begin to doubt the British will really be
voting.

Not a single election poster to be seen, no campaigners. Just mums with
pushchairs and people meandering down the street.

Like Alexandra, for example. She is 24, and says she will vote Labour, "because
they are pro-Europe". She complains, though, that there has been little
information about the forthcoming elections, only leaflets.

I, though, have been unable to get my hands on any election material at all. My
letterbox is stuffed full of leaflets for pizza restaurants and Turkish
minicabs. But electoral propaganda? In the end, the only one that arrives comes
from UKIP.

By contrast, my friend Claudia from Berlin has been complaining to me about
endless coverage and information overload over there. Not that it makes voting
any easier. She says the endless TV adverts annoy her, particularly the one
where an obscure professor tells her to vote for him, because he will cut
welfare for foreigners, is pro-family and wants to give every German a job.

My father, who lives in southern Germany, says a tiny turnout of about 20 per
cent was expected in the region. That, he said, was down to anti- Brussels
feeling. But, unlike Britain's special brand of continental hatred, the southern
Germans have a specific reason for boycotting the polls. They are furious about
a recent Brussels corruption scandal that spoke of MEPs clocking on for work and
hopping on a plane back home.

Now 71, my father is a lifetime Labour voter and local political activist, the
high point being when he secured the first Socialist seat ever in his
conservative region some years ago. But today, when he votes for his MEP, he
will not be casting his vote in the local elections, that - as in the UK - run
alongside

the ones for Europe. That is because it is now European politics that stir up
his political fires.

One wonders if the British even know where the European Parliament is, let alone
care if MEPS were cooking the books.

Michael, a bus driver who I met in Barnet, said he never votes in local
elections. This time he feels he should vote, especially for a mayor who did so
much for bus drivers but, still, he "won't bother". After meeting the voters in
Barnet, I am almost grateful for the vitriolic UKIP. At least it has put the
lifeless debate back in the headlines.

Having said that, the last time I met my German and Dutch colleagues for an
election meeting - we regularly team up to exchange ideas about the UK and its
weird and wonderful ways - there was sheer bafflement at the amount of
anti-Europeanism in all parties' election pamphlets. The attitude seems to be
that it will not hurt to include a few sentences against Brussels in propaganda,
no matter which party you are from.

We shook our heads at a country that seems intent on denying it is already
governed by Brussels in lots of areas. The deep-seated sentiment against being
"not independent" has crystallised into Euro-hatred, and even though the Prime
Minister prides himself on being pro-Europe, under his leadership, things have
got worse..

I was raving the other day about the new cafe in central London, which I see as
a triumph of European food culture over sad, smelly English cafes. I got a bit
carried away and exclaimed: "This island could be paradise: with better public
services and more European influence on the food."

My English friend met my enthusiasm with mild irony: "Don't forget, outside
London, there is great hostility towards anything that even begins with "Euro".
Except one thing.

My local pub in Arsenal is cheerfully decked out with row upon row of European
flags, the most prominent being a German flag with a large "1- 5" printed on it.
That is as enthusiastic about Europe as the UK gets these days. Revelling in
past victories over the foreigners and nervously anticipating future football
clashes seem to be the only thing that will get the British pulse racing when it
comes to Europe.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              164 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

ELECTIONS 2004: NORRIS RALLY SETS LIVINGSTONE ON KNIFE-EDGE

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR Frank Maloney, right, the UKIP London
mayoral candidate, with the Mayor, Ken Livingstone Getty

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 554 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE'S battle to retain his post as Mayor of London today is on a
knife edge after a late challenge by the Tories, an opinion poll shows.

A relatively low-key contest finally sprang to life when a YouGov survey for
London's Evening Standard showed that, when voters' second preferences are taken
into account, Mr Livingstone is on 51 per cent and the Tory candidate Steve
Norris on 49 per cent, among those certain to vote.

The poll suggests Mr Livingstone's decision to return to the Labour fold after
winning the Mayor's job as an independent four years ago may have backfired.
Losing would be a big surprise and a bitter blow for both him and Tony Blair,
who ate humble pie by readmitting Mr Livingstone to his party in the hope of
avoiding a humiliating defeat in the election.

London will be a key battleground at the next general election because it has 74
parliamentary constituencies. At the last election Labour won 55 seats, the
Tories 13 and the Liberal Democrats six.

The mayoral election, the result of which will be annnounced tomorrow night,
could be decided by second preferences. Under the supplementary vote system,
people can cast two votes and, if no candidate wins more than 50 per cent of the
votes, the top two candidates go into a run-off. The second preference votes of
people who backed the eliminated candidates are added to the first round votes
of the top two to decide the winner.

YouGov found that Mr Livingstone has 37 per cent of the first preference votes,
Mr Norris 26 per cent and the Liberal Democrat candidate Simon Hughes 17 per
cent. When the second preference votes are counted, Mr Livingstone is on 55 per
cent and Mr Norris 45 per cent. But among those people who said they were
certain to vote today, the figures are 51 per cent and 49 per cent respectively,
making the contest much too close to call.

The result could hinge on the turnout, which Labour fears will be low, with many
of the party's traditional supporters reluctant to back it because of the Iraq
war. Yesterday Mr Livingstone issued a final appeal for people to vote, urging
those backing the Liberal Democrats and Greens to make him their second
preference to see off the Tory threat.

He said: "I have always said over-confidence or apathy would make the election
much closer than people thought. London has a progressive majority for
continuing the type of policies I have started. It would be a disaster for those
Londoners to wake up after the election to find they have a Tory mayor, when
they would never have allowed it to happen if they had thought it possible."

A spokesman for Mr Norris said: "This is a two-horse race. There is only one way
to beat Livingstone and Labour: that is to vote Norris for a safer London. The
poll shows it's neck and neck, but we are taking nothing for granted."

The YouGov survey is a setback for the Liberal Democrats, suggesting Mr Hughes
will fail to make the run-off against Mr Livingstone. But had he done so he
could have won, since he could have overtaken Labour with second-preference
votes.

Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrats' chief executive, said: "We believe Simon
Hughes is moving up fast. Even this internet survey shows if he gets to second
place he remains the only candidate who can beat Ken Livingstone."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              165 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

ELECTIONS 2004: HOWARD PROMISES NEW DEAL' FOR BRITAIN IN EUROPE TO HEAD OFF UKIP
CHALLENGE

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Michael Howard, right, with the Tory mayoral candidate,
Steven Norris, in London yesterday Toby Madden

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 512 words


MICHAEL HOWARD promised to seek a "new deal" for Britain in Europe as he made a
last-minute attempt to head off the threat to the Tories from the United Kingdom
Independence Party (UKIP) in today's European Parliament elections.

But the Tory leader, whose campaign has been overshadowed by the unexpected
advance of UKIP, suffered a setback when Tory peers who support the anti- EU
party warned that Mr Howard faced a rebellion by his MPs over his refusal to
adopt a more hardline approach to Europe.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, one of five peers stripped of the Conservative whip
after urging voters to support UKIP, said: "I think the executive of the 1922
Committee will take it very seriously and I would be very surprised if Michael
didn't get a very serious bashing up."

Lord Pearson said he did not care which of the other parties got "a bloody
nose... as long as the British people get the truth". He did not know any Tory
peers who would not vote UKIP, including the chairmen and presidents of many
Conservative associations.

He said a strong showing by UKIP would allow those "in the middle position in
the Conservative Party to persuade the leadership to adopt an altogether tougher
stance and therefore make UKIP irrelevant." He added: "That's what we are trying
to do because then UKIP could come back into the Conservative fold, we think."

UKIP received an eve-of-poll fillip when a YouGov survey for London's Evening
Standard showed it running neck and neck with the Tories in the capital. When
people were asked how they would vote in the European elections, 26 per cent
said Labour, with 22 per cent each for the Tories and UKIP, 16 per cent for the
Liberal Democrats and 7 per cent for the Greens. The poll suggested UKIP could
win its first seats on the London Assembly.

Roger Knapman, the leader of UKIP and a former Tory MP, told a press conference
applications for membership were coming in so fast that it was impossible to
keep up with them. "It shot up from 20,000 to 25,000 in a matter of days and is
going on at an enormous rate. They are coming in not just from Conservatives, a
huge number are coming from the Liberals and the Labour Party."

Mr Howard also talked up the prospects of tax cuts in another pitch for the
votes of wavering Tory voters. Promising to cut waste and spend less than
Labour, he said: "That will enable us in due course to lower taxes."

The Tory leader insisted his commitment to "fight Britain's corner in Europe"
was striking a chord with voters, and declared himself "very confident and
optimistic" about the outcome of the European and local elections.

He said EU countries should be able to work together where they wanted but also
opt out. "Let's have a new deal. If you want to integrate more closely that is
fine. We don't want to stop you doing what you want to do, as long as you don't
make us do what we don't want to do."

A Conservative Party spokesman said: "Mr Howard is relaxed about UKIP. We don't
feel they are a big threat. We don't have an extreme position."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              166 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

ELECTIONS 2004: IRAQ, GRAMMAR SCHOOLS AND GOLF FEES BOOSTING TORIES' (POSTAL)
VOTE IN TRAFFORD

BYLINE: IAN HERBERT NORTH OF ENGLAND CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1324 words


SUSAN FILDES, the young leader of Trafford council's Conservative group in south
Manchester, treasures a mug that commemorates one of her party's most fondly
remembered local knees-ups: the annual Olde English Nighte at Urmston, where the
sole object was to consume as much beer and black pudding as possible before
collapsing.

"So what did your wives think of it?" she once asked the venerable old Tory
councillor who bequeathed her the mug. "They weren't invited," he replied - and
it is hard to resist the impression that it stays on the shelf to satisfy her
that at least some things in the party have changed for the better over the past
seven years.

If Mrs Fildes needed further encouragement, it arrives today with a local
election denouement that sees the Conservatives poised to take over Trafford
after a decade of Labour control. Victory will be of huge importance to the
Tories, who have only ever controlled one other metropolitan district (Solihull)
and made Trafford their top local election target this year.

With the Liberal Democrats only a small force in this particular election battle
(their three councillors are confined to one ward), the BNP's three candidates
no-hopers and other minority parties few and far between, the election
constitutes one of today's purest head-to-head fights between Labour and
Conservatives.

The Tories have rolled out their co-chairman, Liam Fox, and deputy party leader
Michael Ancram over the past few weeks in a district that encompasses a large,
thin, slice of south Manchester - from affluent Bowden and Hale in the south to
the more down-at-heel Urmston on the city fringe - and includes the Old Trafford
football and cricket grounds. Labour has received Constitutional Affairs
minister Lord Falconer and considered the Prime Minister's recent visit to
nearby Wythenshawe Hospital a "show of support."

But the Conservatives hopes have been helped most by the Boundary Commission's
almost unprecedented decision last year to reject Labour's plans for a
reorganisation of the district's wards and, instead, put in place plans to
abolish a ward in the party's heartland of Stretford and create one in wealthy,
Tory-dominated, Hale.

In an election year, it has made a two-seat Labour majority look perilous and
forced council and Labour group leader Dave Acton, whose ward boundaries were
reorganised, to swap to the safer Gorse Hill seat.

Even the prospect of an all-postal ballot - potentially an aid to Labour, whose
supporters are less likely to turn out to vote - was failing to boost the
party's efforts yesterday. By activists' reckoning, thousands of postal ballot
papers had still not arrived by lunchtime and they must now rely on locals
casting votes at libraries, which will remain open until about 8pm this evening
to receive them.

In the heat of Gorse Hill, Mr Acton was still knocking on doors at 5pm - a good
seven hours after the last posting time for ballot papers. "We're fighting this
campaign on our record," he said. "We've had control since 1995 and in that time
the schools, parks, public buildings and town centres have all been transformed.
The voters know that."

But back in the Urmston ward, which he has just vacated, the ballot mix- ups
were contributing most to an immutable sense of irritation with Labour. "I can't
be doing with all this post vote change," said Pauline Landon- Harrison, 71, who
was evidently oblivious to the fact that all-postal ballots have been running
here for the past three years and had nothing to do with the local party. "The
Labour lot have stopped the polling stations and look what's happened: it's a
shambles."

Holes were also appearing in Mr Acton's theory that local issues exercised his
electorate. In Urmston's shopping centre Gordon Elder, 71, confessed that the
council's insistence on raising municipal golf club fees had wounded him
(they're up pounds 28) and he remains convinced capital reserves of pounds 7m
have been frittered away by Labour over the past decade. But Iraq was the
subject most on his mind. "He Blair is a bloody idiot following another bloody
idiot Bush ," Mr Elder said.

Canvassing in the safer lanes of residential Altrincham, Mrs Fildes could thank
her lucky stars that the resurgent UK Independence Party (UKIP) was confined to
the European elections. "I've voted for you in the locals and UKIP in the
European," said one doostep voter, who declined to be named.

For her part, Mrs Fildes is bothered enough about Britain's identity to carry a
union flag sticker on her car but does not advocate withdrawal from the EU. But
any potential contradictions are absolved by the Tory trump card: its support of
the last vestiges of Britain's 11-plus and grammar school system, which still
exists here.

Mrs Fildes, 36, was not even a party activist eight or so years ago when she
began campaigning to preserve the system, which she coveted for her three
children. She joined the Conservatives soon afterwards, a few years before
Labour sought to capitalise on new legislation that permitted referenda on the
abolition of grammar schools if 25 per cent of parents (in Trafford, 8,000
people) were in favour. Labour's efforts miserably failed - just 2,000 wanted a
vote - and now the Conservatives can claim to be the grammar school party.

"It's one of the most prominent issues," said Mrs Fildes, who lists crime and
fear of crime as the top of people's issues, closely followed by Altrincham's
new car parking charges, which are piling new pressure on retailers whose
tired-looking town is wilting in the face of the nearby Trafford Centre.

Early analysis of how voters have cast their postal votes suggested, however,
that Trafford's politicians need as many burning issues as they can find. The
turnout here may be as low as 37 per cent.

Barbara Daly, 54, retired

"It might sound funny for somebody like me to say it but I've gone Conservative
rather than Labour this time (I got my postal vote on Monday). It's not
considered a rotten thing to do around here and I think it's time for a bit of a
change. I don't know who is control - or who the local MP is - but a change
would certainly be good."

Deborah Robinson, 35

"I can't say I'm that bothered about any of this election stuff and there's
nothing to choose between the parties; I'm not even sure who's in charge at
present. It might be Labour for me, although I agree with the grammar schools
being around here and all this protesting about getting rid of them wasn't on."

Dave Shey, 51, self-employed shares trader "Preserving the local grammar school
system is the only issue for me in this election. I went through the system, so
are my four children and the Conservatives' policy of preventing the system
changing means that they should win."

Gordon Elder, 71,

retired project design engineer:

"I wouldn't vote Tory nationally, but I have locally. I think they spend the
money better around here and my grandson's going through the grammar school
system. I like the discipline they have; it's great. And there's Iraq. He Blair
is a bloody idiot and he has followed another bloody idiot Bush ."

Lynda Campbell, 36, housewife and mother

"I've not received my postal vote stuff. If I do, I'd go Labour - but I'm not
seeing the policies from anyone to help people like me. It's all let's help
women get back to work' but what about those of us who want to raise our kids at
home? I went through the comprehensive system and I think it's right to make it
equal for all kids, as Labour wants."

Paul Goodman, 35, site worker

"All the parties just turn me off - I can't get interested in the election and I
can't even tell you if I've got the (postal) ballot papers. Labour is probably
more my preference but they don't get their messages across in a way which is
worth me sitting up and taking interest. It's a lot of hot air if you ask me."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              167 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

ELECTIONS 2004: THREE POLLS EQUAL SUPER THURSDAY'

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 394 words


TODAY, WHICH has been labelled Super Thursday, is the biggest test of public
opinion between the last general election and the next.

Voting takes place in 144 of the 387 local authorities in England, with 4,807 of
the country's 19,727 council seats being contested. In Wales, all 1,264 seats on
the 22 councils are being fought. There are no local elections in Scotland this
year.

The only nationwide contest takes place for the European Parliament. The United
Kingdom will elect 78 MEPs, down from 87 at the last European election five
years ago, following last month's expansion of the EU from 15 to 25 members.
Voting takes place by proportional representation based on a party list system,
rather than votes for individual candidates. The number of seats that a party
wins depends on its share of the vote in each of the 12 regions - nine in
England, plus Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

Five years ago the Tories won 36 seats, Labour 29, the Liberal Democrats 10, the
UK Independence Party (UKIP) three, the Green Party two, the Scottish National
Party two and Plaid Cymru two. In Northern Ireland, the Democratic Unionists,
Ulster Unionists and Social Democratic and Labour Party each won one seat.

With the number of seats being cut, attention will focus on the parties' share
of the vote when the results are announced on Sunday night after the rest of
Europe has finished voting. In 1999, the Tories won 36 per cent, Labour 28, the
Liberal Democrats 13, UKIP seven and the Greens six.

In addition, there are elections for the Mayor of London and the 25-member
London Assembly. Four years ago Ken Livingstone won the mayor's post as an
independent but he has now returned to the Labour Party. Labour and the Tories
each won nine seats in the assembly, the Liberal Democrats four and the Greens
three.

In London, people will have five votes - a first and second preference for the
mayoral contest, which is fought under the supplementary vote system; for a
local and London-wide assembly member and for the European Parliament.

Whether the eight million people entitled to vote bother to do so is another
matter. In recent times, only one in three people have voted in local elections
and only one in four voted in the last European elections. But there will still
be a lot riding on the outcome of today's contests.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              168 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

ELECTIONS 2004: ANDREW GRICE'S ELECTION GUIDE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 867 words


LABOUR

Battleground

Defending 2,750 council seats; currently has 29 members of the European
Parliament (MEPs).

Dream scenario

Advance of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) splits the Conservative
vote in the European Parliament elections and puts the spotlight on Michael
Howard, relieving the pressure on Tony Blair; all-postal ballots boost turnout
and Labour vote in council and Euro polls; Ken Livingstone London Mayor.

Nightmare scenario

Mr Livingstone defeated in London, putting a new question mark over Mr Blair's
future; Liberal Democrats invade Labour-run cities; Tories not harmed by UKIP as
much as opinion polls have suggested.

UNITED KINGDOM INDEPENDENCE PARTY (UKIP)

Battleground

Currently holds three seats in European Parliament.

Dream scenario

Wins 16 seats in European Parliament and inflicts humiliating setback on the
Conservative Party; lands first seats on London Assembly; surprises critics who
claim it is a "one-issue party" by winning strong support in council elections
too.

Nightmare scenario

The strong, high-profile campaign proves an illusion and the opinion polls to
have overstated the party's support. Much smaller advance than expected despite
dominating the European election battle.

RESPECT

Battleground

The coalition of activists who opposed Iraq war, Muslim and hard left groups,
including the Socialist Workers' Party is newly formed.

Dream scenario George Galloway, the Independent MP for Glasgow Kelvin, expelled
by Labour over the Iraq war, wins a European Parliament seat in London; Blair
gets a bloody nose over Iraq and is forced to stand down.

Nightmare scenario

Wins no seats in European Parliament or local authorities; Blair survives to
fight general election.

TORIES

Battleground

Defending 1,400 council seats; now have 36 MEPs.

Dream scenario

Hold their position in the European Parliament and push up the 36 per cent share
of the vote they won in 1999 Euro elections; re-establish party in northern
cities from where it was once strong but has almost disappeared; win power in
areas such as Birmingham and Trafford; Steve Norris wins in London Mayoral
election.

Nightmare scenario

Advance of UKIP spoils Michael Howard's first ballot box test as leader. Fall
back in Europe and fail to make a breakthrough in town hall polls, putting
question mark over ability to present serious threat to Labour at general
election expected next May.

GREEN PARTY

Battleground

Holds 53 council seats; two MEPs.

Dream scenario

Becomes the main beneficiary of the anti-war vote and gains four more MEPs,
reviving memories of its best-ever performance at 1989 European elections (15%
of the vote), which forced the main parties to take the environment more
seriously; gains an extra 10 council seats and seven members of the London
Assembly; wins big increase in the party's national share of the vote.

Nightmare scenario

Could lose at least one of its three seats on the London Assembly.

SCOTTISH NATIONAL PARTY

Battleground

Holds two seats in European Parliament but number of seats in Scotland will fall
from eight to seven; no council elections in Scotland this year.

Dream scenario

To top the Euro elections poll by winning the biggest share of the vote of any
party.

Nightmare scenario

To lose one of their two Euro seats, which could provoke leadership crisis and a
formal challenge to John Swinney after disappointment in last year's elections
to the Scottish Parliament.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

Battleground

Defending 1,100 council seats; now have 10 MEPs.

Dream scenario

Significant advances in Labour's northern heartlands to win power in Newcastle
and Sheffield; Simon Hughes defies the opinion polls to come second in first
ballot in London mayoral election then beats Ken Livingstone in run-off with
benefit of second-preference votes.

Nightmare scenario

Rise of UKIP pushes Charles Kennedy's party into fourth place in share of the
votes cast in European elections; no advance in Labour town hall territory; lose
ground to revived Conservative Party in shire districts; Simon Hughes comes poor
third in London mayoral battle.

BRITISH NATIONAL PARTY (BNP)

Battleground

Holds fewer than 20 council seats.

Dream scenario

Its leader Nick Griffin wins a European Parliament seat in North West; party
wins first seat on London Assembly; further advances in local authorities in
Lancashire and West Yorkshire.

Nightmare scenario

No seat in the European Parliament and loses some council seats. The rise of
UKIP, which has already overshadowed its campaign, blunts its recent progress at
the ballot box.

PLAID CYMRU

Battleground

Left-of-centre Welsh Nationalist party defending best-ever showing in 1999 Euro
and local elections. Currently has 200 councillors and two MEPs.

Dream scenario

Gain 50 council seats and retain two councils won from Labour in 1999, Rhondda
Cynon Taf and Caerphilly. Retain two MEPs.

Nightmare scenario

Lose Rhondda Cynon Taf and Caerphilly and make no other gains.

Lose one MEP because Wales will now have four instead of five.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              169 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

ELECTIONS 2004: THREE POLLS EQUAL SUPER THURSDAY'

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 308 words


TODAY, WHICH has been labelled Super Thursday, is the biggest test of public
opinion between the last general election and the next.

Voting takes place in 144 of the 387 local authorities in England, with 4,807 of
the country's 19,727 council seats being contested. In Wales, all 1,264 seats on
the 22 councils are being fought. There are no local elections in Scotland this
year.

The only nationwide contest takes place for the European Parliament. The United
Kingdom will elect 78 MEPs, down from 87 at the last European election five
years ago, following last month's expansion of the EU from 15 to 25 members.
Voting takes place by proportional representation based on a party list system,
rather than votes for individual candidates. The number of seats that a party
wins depends on its share of the vote in each of the 12 regions- nine in
England, plus Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

Five years ago the Tories won 36 seats, Labour 29, the Liberal Democrats 10, the
United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) three, the Green Party two, the
Scottish National Party two and Plaid Cymru two. In Northern Ireland, the
Democratic Unionists, Ulster Unionists and Social Democratic and Labour Party
each won one seat.

With the number of seats being cut, attention will focus on the parties' share
of the vote when the results are announced on Sunday night after the rest of
Europe has finished voting. In 1999, the Tories won 36 per cent, Labour 28, the
Liberal Democrats 13, UKIP 7 and the Greens 6.

In addition, there are elections for the Mayor of London and the 25- member
London Assembly. Four years ago Ken Livingstone won the mayor's post as an
independent but he has now returned to the Labour Party. Labour and the Tories
both won nine seats in the assembly, the Liberal Democrats four and the Greens
three.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              170 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

ELECTIONS 2004: MAVERICK PARTIES HOPE FOR GAINS

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1294 words


VOTERS IN 25 nations start going to the polls today, as the world's largest
transnational elections begin amid warnings that maverick nationalist,
Eurosceptic and fringe parties will make gains.

Polling booths open in the UK and the Netherlands at the start of four days in
which about half of the 350 million eligible voters are expected to cast their
ballots. Many are likely to use the elections to the European Parliament to cast
protest votes against national governments.

According to some predictions, the centre-right bloc in the Strasbourg
parliament is expected to emerge victorious with slightly less than 38 per cent
of the vote, while the centre-left will claim just under 30 per cent and the
Liberals more than 8 per cent. But the main political focus will be whether
turnout - which dipped below 50 per cent in 1999 - will carry on falling, and to
what extent Eurosceptics emerge triumphant.

In Britain, the UK Independence Party, boosted by celebrity endorsements, is
likely to double or treble its complement of three MEPs. Sceptics and
nationalists are also set to prosper in Poland and Denmark, while the pace has
been set in Austria and the Netherlands by those running on a "clean up
Brussels" ticket.

Of the 25 nations, 18 will vote on Sunday, and results are not due to be
announced before they finish voting. Yesterday the Netherlands said, however,
that it would release its results tonight, even if that risks legal action from
the European Commission.

The four-day voting period is designed to accommodate different national
customs. The UK traditionally votes on a Thursday, while Belgians are used to
going to the polls on a Sunday.

As voting was about to begin, Pat Cox, president of the European Parliament made
a colourful attack on the parliamentary record of the three UK Independence
Party MEPs elected to Strasbourg in 1999, and said only mainstream politicians
could head off a rise in Euroscepticism. "There is no substitute for politics
and leadership," Mr Cox told The Independent, "For people to be motivated to
vote, it requires that all the key actors motivate themselves to give real
leadership".

Asked whether the three UKIP MEPs elected in 1999 had done anything at
Strasbourg he joked: "yes they wore pound sterling signs on their lapels". Mr
Cox, who stands an outside chance of winning the post of president of the
European Commission or of being nominated as Ireland's Commissioner, argued that
"the higher the turnout the more probable the conventional political parties
would get more seats".

That meant that, for leaders of conventional parties "the answer is to get on
their bicycles and to mobilise their votes for their candidates and their
programmes." However, in many, countries it has been the maverick parties that
have showed most commitment and energy. The Europe-wide poll is unlike a
national election, in which unpopular governments can be ejected from power, and
mainstream politicians have found it difficult to persuade the public that their
votes count.

Where they do, many will cast their ballots on national grounds, and
governments, including those of the UK, Italy, Germany, France, the Netherlands
and Belgium, are expected to suffer reverses from a sizeable protest vote.

Polls predict a low turnout of little more than 40 per cent - something likely
to benefit the smaller parties. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's governing Social
Democrats are attempting to rekindle support by reiterating their opposition to
the Iraq war. The opposition conservative Christian Democrats are hoping to turn
their 30 per cent lead in the opinion polls into seats.

Voters are set to deal a humiliating defeat to the socialist party Pasok. The
conservative New Democracy is set to expand its 3-point win to 8 points.
Marginal parties including the Communists, and the social-democratic Synaspismos
are expected to make gains, while the extreme right LAOS party has an outside
chance of gaining a seat. The poll has been overshadowed by final preparations
for the Olympics.

The new centre-left Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, whose own
surprise ballot win came after the 11 March Madrid bombings, is still enjoying a
political honeymoon. Mr Zapatero accused his predecessor, Jose Maria Aznar, of
driving a wedge between Madrid and Brussels after he insisted on sticking to
generous voting rights afforded Spain by the 2000 Nice treaty and wrecked the
chances of a deal on the EU constitution in December.

Guy Verhofstadt, the Liberal Prime Minister who leads a six-party coalition,
faces an electoral rebuff. The main beneficiaries are likely to be the Christian
Democrats, but the far-right, nationalist Vlaams Blok is also expected to
prosper.

Home to the so-called June Movement, born to oppose the Maastricht treaty.
Jens-Peter Bonde, the outspoken Eurosceptic MEP, is expected to prosper, while
the Venstre (Liberal) party of premier Anders Fogh Rasmussen is expected to
sustain losses.

National elections as well as European elections take place on the Sunday, which
has complicated life for the Christian Democrat Prime Minister, Jean-Claude
Juncker. He is tipped to be the next president of the European Commission.

Health, transport, fishing quotas, rural development and crime are among the
issues when Ireland votes tomorrow. Fine Gael is expected to be the biggest
winner, while support has slipped for Fianna Fail. There has been a swell in
support for independents, but the Green Party may lose its two seats and Sinn
Fein is mounting a strong challenge for two seats.

PORTUGAL

The elections have had to compete with the European football championships.
Yesterday all five major parties suspended their campaigns after the death of
Antonio Sousa Franco, the head of the leading Socialist party list and a
respected former finance minister. Centre right poised for gains.

The campaign has been enlivened by the candidature of Hans-Peter Martin, a
populist MEP and former journalist who used a video camera to record his
colleagues wrongly claiming attendance allowances. Mr Martin's tactics have been
condemned by the president of the European Parliament, Pat Cox, as "Stasi-like".
The socialists are expecting gains.

The most virulent Europhobes, encouraged by the "no" vote in last year's euro
referendum, have united. The Green Party is considered likely to abandon its
calls for Sweden to withdraw from the EU.

FINLAND

The Centre-left coalition which assumed power after the 2003 general election
looks likely to prosper.

POLAND

Poland has seen its election campaign dominated by the progress of the populist,
Eurosceptic, Self Defence party led by former pig farmer Andrzej Lepper. The
centre-right is also poised for wins.

CZECH REPUBLIC

The conservative and Eurosceptic Czech President, Vaclav Klaus, has described
his country's relationship with the EU as "a marriage of convenience, not love".
The balance of power in the country is held by the left, which is likely to make
gains.

HUNGARY

Pollsters predict liberals will lose out to main centre-left and centre- right
groups.

SLOVAKIA

Polls predict a shift to the left.

SLOVENIA

Polls show Slovenes have become disillusioned with the EU. Left hoping for
gains.

ESTONIA

Centre-right and liberals likely to poll well.

CYPRUS

Elections overshadowed by the failure of the reunification of the divided
island.

MALTA

Polls show a split with three centre-right MEPs and two centre-left MEPs set to
be elected.

LITHUANIA

Centre-right expected to suffer small losses.

LATVIA

Centre-left poised for small advances.

Reporting by Stephen Castle, Helen Kinsella, Tony Paterson and William Bland

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              171 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

LEADING ARTICLE: MR BLAIR SHOULD SUFFER THE ELECTORAL CONSEQUENCES OF HIS
CALAMITOUS WAR

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1230 words


TODAY'S ELECTIONS are the biggest and most important since the general election
in 2001. Every UK seat in the European Parliament is being contested, together
with a significant section of English local council wards and the powerful
mayoralty in London. Normally a large range of factors would determine the
outcome of such diverse elections, ranging from the Government's overall record
to the views of local candidates on cycle lanes and rubbish collection.

But today's poll takes place in the shadow of the war against Iraq. Inevitably,
the outcome will be seen in part as a verdict on Tony Blair's decision to
support the conflict and the chaos that has ensued, both in Iraq and in our
relationship with other nations. Europe is the other issue that has dominated
the campaigning in recent weeks, not least because of an apparent surge in
support for the one-note United Kingdom Independence Party.

In these unusual political circumstances, there is an overwhelming case to send
out two distinct messages. Above all, there is a chance to demonstrate that
there are electoral consequences for a Prime Minister who led Britain into an
unnecessary and calamitous war. Of course, these elections are not directly
about the war, but they offer voters their first opportunity to register their
distaste for Mr Blair's actions. And he deserves to pay a political price. It is
important also that pro-Europeans register their support for any party that
dares to challenge the xenophobic, simplistic policies advocated by some in
these elections.

On both counts, the Conservatives deserve a drubbing. If they had opposed the
war from the outset, they would probably be well ahead in the polls. Instead,
the leadership was more gung-ho than Tony Blair, and, despite Michael Howard's
recent attempts to distance himself from the Prime Minister on this issue, the
Tories remain wedded to this neo-conservative cause.

On Europe, Mr Howard's claim that Britain can remain a member of the European
Union while rejecting virtually all the initiatives supported by other member
states is not remotely practical. He has fallen between two stools, pleasing
neither hardline Eurosceptics nor pro-Europeans. Mr Howard had hoped these
elections would provide a springboard towards the general election; instead,
they are likely only to remind him how far he and his party have to travel to
convince voters that they are an alternative government with credible policies.

It is to be hoped, however, that their mistakes don't give too much help to UKIP
and the British National Party, whose bigoted and uninformed prejudices are so
distasteful.

The cost of war

Tony Blair has an incomparably more constructive approach towards Europe
compared to his two Conservative predecessors and Michael Howard's current
position - although this is not saying very much and, in truth, he has achieved
little. More broadly, he can point to a strong economy, some minor improvements
to the public services and some progressive, if under- publicised, reforms.
These are achievements that will deserve more attention in a general election
campaign. But for now, for many voters, these successes pale beside the actions
of a Prime Minister who sent British troops into battle on a false premise.

With a passionate advocacy, Mr Blair took his nation to war asserting that Iraq
posed an imminent threat. Since then, no weapons of mass destruction have been
found, and it has emerged that much of the intelligence used to justify the
conflict was wrong. Now the Prime Minister claims that we all knew that Saddam
possessed weapons because he used them on his own people. But before the war Mr
Blair was making an entirely different claim: that Saddam had developed new and
more lethal weapons that put us all into danger.

The conflict was also supposed to be part of the war against terrorism, and yet
it has served only to heighten the terrorists' threat, failed to lead us any
closer to a resolution of the Israel-Palestine situation, and has damaged
Britain's reputation around the world. This has been Britain's most disastrous
foreign policy decision since Suez. A strong vote for Labour would be taken as a
signal that Mr Blair had emerged politically unscathed from his war. That should
not, and probably will not, happen.

So how should voters show their loathing of this war to Mr Blair? The Greens are
an important political voice in Britain, raising many issues that would
otherwise go unheard, both locally and nationally. They also opposed the war.
But they are a small political force and support for them would split the
anti-war vote. Respect is a motley collection of extremists trying to exploit Mr
Blair's discomfort; they are not serious contenders, nor do they deserve to be.

A courageous stand

This leaves the Liberal Democrats. Charles Kennedy took a courageous decision in
deciding to oppose the war, while his foreign affairs spokesman, Menzies
Campbell, has been the most forensic and powerful critic on the opposition
benches. It is also a party that has shown conviction on the euro and never
hidden its desire for Britain to play a more committed role in the European
project. Mr Kennedy has, additionally, been a lonely voice speaking up for the
rights of immigrants and asylum-seekers, whether from the newer member states of
the EU or from other parts of the globe.

The Liberal Democrats have, unfortunately, fought a rather lacklustre campaign,
especially in London, where their candidate Simon Hughes has been elbowed aside
by the Tories. And, demonstrating the complexity of today's elections, Ken
Livingstone, once again a Labour candidate, was opposed to the war, had the
courage to introduce the congestion charge and is one of the most persuasive
advocates of Britain's membership of the single currency. Support for
Livingstone could not be seen as an endorsement of Mr Blair's foreign policy.
Likewise, in less high-profile contests elsewhere, there are principled
candidates standing for election for a range of parties, personally opposed to
the war and supportive of Britain's active membership of the EU.

The key issues

Given the nature of these elections, it is possible that there will be no
overall winners except, perhaps, on the fringes. The two-party system we have
known for more than a century is under pressure from an increasingly
sophisticated electorate that is comfortable with making choices. But in the
main, voters should act in the knowledge that the higher the Labour vote, the
more Mr Blair would be able to claim that the war was only an issue that
obsesses the Westminster village. And they should bear in mind that on the two
key issues - the war in Iraq and Britain's place in Europe - the Liberal
Democrats have demonstrated their courage, their conviction and their
principles, an all-too-rare event in British politics.

These are important elections today. But this is not a general election. Voters
should take the opportunity to demonstrate to Mr Blair their contempt for his
foreign adventurism, for his willingness to provide cover for President George
Bush's administration, and for his extraordinary naivety on the international
stage. A Prime Minister who led his country into such an ill-thought out and
unjustified war, with such damaging consequences, deserves to feel the heat.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              172 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

QUOTE OF THE DAY

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 22 words


"I don't know anyone in the Lords who isn't going to vote Ukip."

LORD PEARSON OF RANNOCH, RECENTLY STRIPPED OF THE TORY WHIP

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              173 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

WHY YOU MUST HAVE YOUR SAY TODAY AND STOP THE POLITICAL NUTTERS HIJACKING
EUROPE'S FUTURE

BYLINE: SMOOTH AS SILK, BUT HIS LITTLE ENGLAND PLANS ARE JUST A JOKE OUR
VERDICT: UKRIP PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 233 words


WE have had one D-Day this week, marking the fight to free Europe of Nazi
domination. Today is another: Decision Day on the future of Europe, with the
stakes almost as high.

Elections for the European Parliament are notoriously the happy hunting grounds
for political nutters.

The United Kingdom Independence Party is a goggle-eyed bunch of loonies which
would take us out of the most successful trading alliance in modern times. The
EU that has brought us peace for 50 years.

Do we really want to be run by the likes of Joan Collins, a superannuated
actress, and Robert Kilroy Silk, a vain old tele-fart? They are the people who
flock to UKIP. I would as soon show my bottom in Harrods' shop window as vote
for these little-Englander nobodies.

The British National Party seeks to bring hatred where there is amity. It
pretends to talk for Britons. It does not. It speaks for latter-day fascists.

There is only one way to beat these nasties: Go out and vote this morning for
the ABN PARTY, anybody but nutters. All the mainstream parties - Labour, Lib Dem
and even the Tories - want us to stay in Europe. The differences between them
are of emphasis, not principle.

Politicians understand only one thing. The verdict of the people. They have to
live with what we say. Without us, they are nothing. Today is a D-Day for
Democracy. If we do not vote, the nutters will win.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              174 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

YOUR DUTY;
 PREZZA: VOTE FOR HEROES

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 297 words

HIGHLIGHT: PROUD: Prezza with his dad, Bert


JOHN Prescott yesterday urged Britons to vote in today's polls as a tribute to
the heroic veterans of D-Day.

The Deputy Prime Minister told how his father, Bert, had lost his leg in the war
after being shot.

And he said it was the sacrifice of his dad and millions like him that made it
vital for people to vote.

Mr Prescott said: "This week we remember the courage of those who fought to
retain our rights.

"It's our responsibility to remember their sacrifice.

"They enabled millions to settle differences by the ballot box rather than by
fighting and dying."

Prezza, 64, a child during the war, added: "My most poignant memory was when my
father came home from the war with just one leg.

"His artificial leg was a constant reminder... of what happened." Millions will
go to the polls for local, European and council elections.

There is voting for 166 local councils in England and Wales, 78 European MPs and
the London mayor.

In the North East, North West, East Midlands and Yorkshire and Humber areas
voting is by post only.

But yesterday there were fears of chaos and fraud in the postal vote. The Tories
said Mr Prescott was playing "fast and loose" with democracy amid accusations of
foul play.

Greater Manchester police and the Lancashire force are probing claims of fraud.
Emergency polling booths are going up in Bolton after ballot papers were
undelivered.

But Mr Prescott, who said misconduct would be severely dealt with, told the
Commons all-postal ballots had boosted turnout.

Results for local councils will roll in from Thursday night and for the London
mayor on Friday evening.

Euro poll results - where Labour and the Tories will be squeezed by the UK
Independence Party - are not due until Sunday.

EXCLUSIVE

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              175 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

VOICE OF THE DAILY MIRROR: APATHY WILL HAND WIN TO RACISTS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 414 words


TODAY'S elections have hardly captured the imagination of voters.

Yet they are vital - the biggest test of public opinion between the last general
election and the next.

The campaigns have been relentlessly negative as party leaders roamed the
country failing to counter genuine apathy.

There has been almost no serious mention of Europe in the battle for the
European Parliament.

Local issues have barely featured in the struggle for control of local councils.

The only parties doing relatively well are fringe ones with ignorant, nasty and
dangerous policies.

Widespread cynicism will make many voters want to stay away from the polls. They
should not.

There is no point in moaning about the government, EU, or your council if you
don't vote. But there are even more important reasons to take part.

The lower the turnout, the better the result for the right-wing parties which
threaten democracy, harmony and Britain's future.

The BNP are the heirs of the Nazis - racist, destructive and dangerous. However
disenchanted you are with the main parties, don't vote for these thugs.

UKIP is not much better. In fact, in some ways it is worse. It pretends to be
respectable.

Yet, apart from its ludicrous desire to pull the UK out of the EU, it also wants
to throw out immigrants.

Which ones will it start with? The doctors and nurses who keep the NHS running?
The East Europeans vital to the building industry? The Asians who run newsagents
and corner shops? Italian waiters? Australian bar staff? Workers in Indian
restaurants and Chinese takeaways?

UKIP is a party built on hatred - not just of our European partners, but of
foreigners.

Its one achievement has been to damage the Tories. Michael Howard's facade of
success as leader is about to be shattered.

The Liberal Democrats have spent the election arguing against the war in Iraq
when they should have been arguing for Britain's role in Europe.

Which brings us to Labour.

Tony Blair is in trouble mainly because of the Iraq war - though there is a
glimmer of hope now that the United Nations is supporting the new peace plan.

But this government has achieved a great deal and has had little recognition for
it. There have been real improvements in the health service and education in
particular. Our economy is amazingly strong.

So the message today is go out and vote. And vote Labour.

For the sake of keeping Britain a thriving and, above all, decent nation.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              176 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

BRIAN READE: DON'T SELL OUT TO PEDLARS OF HATE

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 528 words


THE last time I felt this let down was when I sent off for a sex manual called
The Bedding Tips Of Mr Seed and it arrived with Alan Titchmarsh's head on the
cover.

For six weeks I've been holed up amid a mountain of Evian bottles, pointing a
trusty bayonet through my letter-box, waiting for the hordes of Roma gypsies,
Slovakian drug-runners, Polish prozzies and Estonian mafia to leech off me. But
not so much as a Hungarian ghoul.

No massing at the borders, no tide of invading scroungers. Our hospitals haven't
been swamped, our schools haven't been flooded. So where, oh where, are the 1.4
million migrants we were assured would flee here after 10 new countries joined
the EU on May 1.

I know the majority of them are one-legged roofers but, Jesus, it's been 40 days
now. How long does it take to hop from their poverty-stricken holes to the land
of milk and honey to bleed our benefits system dry?

It's just not happening, is it? The leeching hordes have turned out to be the
new WMDs.

Mythical images put there by Migration Watch, the UKIP, the BNP, the Tories and
their hate-stirring apologists on the right.

We were lied to by the profiteers of fear. The same people whose silence about
the reality is now deafening.

The ones who won't tell you about the Polish Foreign Ministry's estimate that,
since May 1, 15,000 people have left Poland for London, with 8,000 returning
because their savings ran out before they found milk or honey.

Or Whitehall's estimate that traffic from the 10 new countries is "slightly up".

We've been here before. In the 80s, when Spain, Portugal and Greece joined the
EU, the same shower promised a swarthy invasion. But more returned home than
stayed because expansion was bringing a new wealth to their countries. Which was
all they ever wanted.

But it's not in the interests of the doom-mongers to own up to their con.

To admit that a Europe, with all its people lifted into wealth, makes us all
stronger and happier. To thank the EU for providing us with the legal workers
our growing economy needs, rather than making desperate criminals stow away on
trucks en route to our black market.

They won't show you the latest available figures which say migrants to Britain
in 2000 spent pounds 2.5billion more in taxes than they took in benefits.
Because they want you filled with their fear.

Which makes it important how you vote today. A vote for the BNP or the UKIP or
Michael Howard's Tories is a vote for this kind of obnoxious vision of a Britain
with its borders shut.

Don't give them the chance to claim that the St George flags millions now fly
from their cars in support of a national football team is a mandate to shrink
into some mythical medieval world where the role of this great country is to
slay all foreign dragons.

If you can't bring yourself to vote for Labour under Tony Blair, then vote Green
or Respect or Save The Local Post-Box. If you can't be bothered to do that, then
stay at home and sort out your briefs drawer.

Just don't put an X next to any of these small-minded, prejudice-driven liars.
Because you and your country are better than that.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              177 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 10, 2004

IN YOUR HANDS

SECTION: SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 202 words


WHO deserves your vote in today's elections?

As ever, the decision is yours.

Many people will have firm views on who should run our town halls and who should
be Mayor of London.

But the choice in the elections for the European Parliament is more complicated.

The Sun has never made any secret of its opposition to the level of European
integration favoured by Labour.

Equally, we have never supported total withdrawal from Europe as sought by the
UK Independence Party.

We can understand why some people feel they would just like to be shot of Europe
for good.

But it isn't that easy. We have a great trading relationship with our European
friends.

The Sun's opposition is to letting Europe have political control of Britain. We
do not think Britain should try to live in isolation from our European
neighbours.

That just leaves the Tories.

They oppose the European Constitution, want major changes to European farming
and fisheries policies, and would refuse to let Brussels have more powers over
us.

Sun readers may feel that best sums up how they feel about Europe today.

But the choice -and the future of our relationship with Europe -lies firmly in
YOUR hands.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              178 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 10, 2004

BIG TWO LOSE OUT

SECTION: SUN LEADS GREAT DEBATE ON EUROPE

LENGTH: 145 words


TONY Blair and Michael Howard are BOTH heading for Super Thursday election doom
today.

The Tories are expected to lose vital European Parliament seats to the UK
Independence Party. And Labour are tipped to get a bloody nose as voters desert
them in the town halls.

Mr Blair has been warned he faces losing hundreds of councillors in today's
poll.

The PM knows the Tories will do well at the town halls -but true blue voters
plan to turn their backs on Mr Howard and protest against Brussels.

Mr Blair is also bracing himself for a shock result in London.

Mayor Ken Livingstone and his leading challenger, Tory Steve Norris, were
virtually neck and neck last night.

When second preference votes are included a poll put Mr Norris on 49 per cent
and Labour's Ken on 51 per cent, far closer than anyone had predicted.

The Sun Says -Page Eight


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              179 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 10, 2004

IN YOUR HANDS

SECTION: THE SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 189 words


WHO deserves your vote in today's elections? As ever, the decision is yours.

And the choice in the elections for the European Parliament is very complicated.

The Scottish Sun has never made any secret of its opposition to the level of
European integration favoured by Labour and the SNP.

Equally, we have never supported total withdrawal from Europe as sought by the
UK Independence Party.

We can understand why some people feel they would just like to be shot of Europe
for good.

But it isn't that easy. We have a great trading relationship with our European
friends.

The Sun's opposition is to letting Europe have political control of Britain.

We do not think Britain should try to live in isolation from our European
neighbours.

That just leaves the Tories.

They oppose the European Constitution, want major changes to European farming
and fisheries policies and would refuse to let Brussels have more powers over
us.

Sun readers may feel that best sums up how they feel about Europe today.

But the choice - and the future of our relationship with Europe - lies firmly in
YOUR hands.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              180 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 10, 2004

APATHY IS KING IN THE EURO VOTE

BYLINE: Andrew Nicoll

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 550 words


ALTHOUGH I'm far too modest to mention it, I feel I deserve some kind of
recognition from you, the readers, for having successfully ignored the Euro
elections these past few weeks.

However, since polling gets under way today I suppose I have to acknowledge it
somehow.

It's been a dull campaign. Duller than most and that's pretty much in line with
the utter, abject pointlessness of the whole tawdry affair.

Normally I urge people to get out and vote and, in the wake of the D-Day
celebrations, we should all recognise what a precious freedom that is.

But, try as I might, I am hard pressed to think of a single reason to bother.

There is no doubt that the outcome of a Westminster election can change your
life and the lives of your friends and neighbours.

It may even end the lives of people you have never even heard of, if you
consider issues like Iraq.

The Scottish elections have a certain relevance too, if you care about things
like hospitals, schools, roads, the basic bread and butter issues on how
Scotland is run.

Even council elections count if you're bothered about the council tax, getting
the bins emptied, that sort of thing.

But Europe? Don't make me laugh!

You've seen all the campaign flim-flam about how 60 per cent of our laws come
direct from Europe now. Well, it's true, but the European Parliament doesn't
make the laws.

Even your local council can come up with regulations about drinking in public
places or one-way streets and that's more than the Euro Parliament can do.

Voting in the Euro elections is like waving a bag of bananas at King Kong. It
might make you feel better, but it's not going to change a thing.

The Euro Parliament can amend legislation or veto it. It can't make it.

Every word of law that comes from Europe comes from the Council of Ministers or
the Commission.

The Council of Ministers is made up of the Governments of member states.

All the Farm Ministers meet together to decide farm policy or the Energy
Ministers decide energy policy or whatever. If you want a vote on that, cast it
at Westminster.

And nobody gets to vote on the Commissioners. In fact, one of the best ways of
becoming a Commissioner is to get rejected by the voters.

Neil Kinnock couldn't win an election to save his life - but his reward for
years of failure is a seat on the European Commission.

Tough

Chris Patten was kicked out by the voters of Bath and his pay-off was to become
the last Governor of Hong Kong, followed up by a place as a Euro Commissioner.

In short, the Euro elections are a fraud. Every party involved is standing on a
manifesto which it knows it cannot possibly implement in a Parliament which
doesn't actually make laws.

The UK Independence Party wants to pull out of Europe - they'd have to get
elected at Westminster first.

The SNP is going to get tough on fishing policy. Fine. All they have to do is
win independence, get Scotland into the EU and persuade 25 other countries to
agree.

And that goes for the Scottish Socialists, Greens and Tories too. The only
people with any clout in Europe just now are Labour - but not their MEPs.

So, in the absence of any real power or influence, I suppose they'll just have
to keep taking the money for another five years.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              181 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 10, 2004

VOTE NEILSON. AND THAT'S STRAIGHT FROM THE HORSE'S MOUTH FOLKS

BYLINE: Yvonne Bolouri

SECTION: EURO ELECTIONSPECIAL

LENGTH: 344 words


HORSE-WHISPERER Peter Neilson doesn't know where his gift for healing comes
from.

But without exception, every horse he's been called in to help has made a full
recovery from physical or mental illness.

Retired farmer Peter, 64, from Kelso in the Borders, heals horses all over the
world. He even claims he can cure by E-MAIL.

Wild

But the horses have been put on hold this week as the final hustings for the
European elections become frantic.

He said yesterday: "I'm standing for the UK Independence Party - but my horses
are very supportive."

Jack, Maurice, Penny and Barney the wild pony have all given him their vote.

Peter, left, said: "I told them I wouldn't be able to spend as much time with
them as I would like, and they know this is important to me, so they jolly me up
when I do see them.

"Horses are incredibly intelligent animals.

"And coming into contact with horses or any animal which has been abused breaks
my heart."

Peter communicates with the animals on three levels.

He said: "The first is by body language.

"You can tell a lot from animals by body language. It's just the same with
people.

"The second way is by telepathy when the horse speaks to you in your mind.

"And the third way is soul to soul. You instinctively tune in. It's quite
amazing when you touch souls."

Qualified engineer Peter turned his back on the industry after 20 years to
return to his love of animals. He said: "I was brought up with horses. My early
childhood was spent in Stewarton in Ayrshire where my father was the coal
master.

"The pit ponies used to come to us for their holidays."

Horse whispering came naturally but now Peter is hoping to build a rapport with
voters.

Change

He said: "Our politicians are illegally destroying our democracy so I joined the
UK Independence Party.

"The new European Constitution relegates the UK to a province of the superstate,
and yet Mr Blair calls it a tidying-up operation. I disagree.

"I want change and I believe this is the only way forward."


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              182 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

I'll plump for "all of the above"

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: Features; Times2; 3

LENGTH: 900 words


INSTEAD OF TRYING TO SQUEEZE MY PRINCIPLES INTO THE ILL-FITTING TEMPLATE OF JUST
ONE PARTY, I WILL ENJOY SCATTERING MY VOTES AROUND

My worst shopping nightmare is buying jeans or bikinis. You wrestle with these
garments in a tiny, airless changing room and each time you emerge, flustered
and sweaty, to look in the mirror, you find that there's something wrong. If the
jeans fit around the hips, they're too big at the waist. If the bikini top is
just right, the bottom is just wrong.

Then, thanks to Time Out, I discovered a tiny shop in Hoxton where the owner
takes a careful look at you, offers you three pairs of jeans to try on, and
guarantees that one will fit perfectly. The recommendation was spot-on, and I
emerged apparelled in the most comfortable and flattering (though sadly also the
most expensive) jeans I've ever bought.

This morning, I intend to experience the same feeling of satisfaction, but with
the extra gratification that it comes free. I shall walk into the polling booth,
and instead of trying to squeeze my principles into the ill-fitting template of
just one political party, I shall enjoy scattering my votes around. No pinching
at the hips; no gaping at the waist. This exercise of my democratic rights will
fit perfectly.

That is the beauty of today's elections. They are not like a general election,
in which you often have to go through painful contortions to back any single
party.

At the next general election, hundreds of thousands will vote Labour despite
their opposition to the war in Iraq. It will give them no pleasure at all; if
anything, they will feel sullied by the experience.

Equally, there will be others -lifelong Labour supporters -who will vote Liberal
Democrat precisely because of the war but who will have no particular sympathy
with other Lib Dem policies. They will be angry that their own party, which used
to fit them as well as a trusty old pair of jeans, seems to have shrunk in the
wash.

Today, though, is different, for we have the luxury of choice. We can vote for
one party in the European elections and another in the local ones. Londoners
have not just the European poll but also a choice of mayor and assembly members.
And, conveniently for a political commentator who wants to retain her
independence, my preferences this time fall neatly into all three camps.

On Europe, I reckon the Tories most deserve my vote. Although Michael Howard
overreacted to the success of the UK Independence Party (UKIP), he has been
articulating an intelligent, modern vision for how the EU should develop. Howard
wants to see a flexible union, in which states that want to integrate further
are allowed to do so, without forcing the rest of us to join them. It sounds
sensible to me: far more so than Labour's and the Lib Dems' often naive
acceptance of clunking, inflexible integration.

Howard's moderate vision, though, is threatened by the Right, who want him to
sound much more strident. They worry about Tory voters shifting their allegiance
to the UKIP. So those of us who want the Conservative Party to remain
enlightenedly sceptical on Europe, rather than rabidly Europhobic, should lend
it our vote today.

There's no way, though, that I will vote Tory in the London mayoral race (even
though I did last time). I knew Steve Norris had a nerve -how else could he have
remained a minister even after his string of mistresses was uncovered? -but more
recently he has surpassed himself. To accept the chairmanship of Jarvis, the
company at the heart of the Potters Bar rail crash which is also in one of the
Tube consortia, showed a truly breathtaking brazenness. Does he really not give
a toss about possible conflicts of interest? Well I do.

As for Ken Livingstone, he has not proved the "night-mayor" that he might have
been, and the congestion charge has worked reasonably well, but his success in
this term has been mortgaged on the next. Ken has been splashing our money about
as extravagantly as any Knightsbridge shopaholic. What is more, he is determined
to extend the congestion charge area westwards, which will jam the streets of
those of us who live just beyond it and cost us another small fortune every time
we need to drive east or north.

The only candidate who can beat Livingstone is Simon Hughes. He may be behind
Norris in the polls on first preference votes, but he is most people's second
choice. So if he got into a run-off with Ken, and their second-preference votes
were counted too, he might just win. Hughes may be a bit dull, but he is less
dangerous than Livingstone and less tainted than Norris.

Having voted Conservative and Lib Dem, then, I can make up the trinity by
supporting Labour members for the London Assembly. I have not noticed the
assembly make any difference to my life, but I am happy to toss Tony Blair a
morsel today, as I think he has been unfairly maligned over the past few months.
Despite the carping, this has actually been a fairly successful Government by
historical standards.

Doubtless the papers over the weekend will be full of earnest political analysis
about how it was the "none-of-the-above" election. Small parties such as the
UKIP, the Greens and the BNP will do dispro-portionately well at the expense of
the big three.

But it's always more fun to buck the trend. So this voter will enjoy plumping
for "all of the above".


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              183 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

Confused? You probably will be ...

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 220 words


TODAY'S elections are the biggest test of public opinion since the general
election of 2001. The mix of local, Euro-pean and London elections presents
voters with the most baffling array of ballot papers and voting systems yet.

More than 6,000 councillors will be elected to town halls in England and Wales
on a first-past-the-post system, while 76 MEPs will be voted in under a regional
list system. In London, the mayor will be elected under the "supplementary vote"
system, where second preferences are used if no candidate wins more than half
the votes. The 25 members of the London Assembly will be elected under a mix of
first-past-the-post and the London-wide list system.

Parties will be working flat out today to maximise their vote, and try to
prevent turnout slipping below the 24.1 per cent at the last European elections
in 1999, a record low. All-postal voting is likely to mean turnout is
substantially higher.

Originally billed as a referendum on Tony Blair's leadership, the "Super
Thursday" elections have instead become much more unpredictable.

The UK Independence Party, with its celebrity candidate Robert Kilroy-Silk and
call for EU withdrawal, has threatened a major upset to the Tories but Labour
also is struggling with apathy and losing votes to the Liberal Democrats.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              184 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

Ballot brings apathy to a whole continent

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Europe Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 741 words


THE world's first continental election kicks off today, but most of those
entitled to vote will not bother, and few of those who do have much idea what
they are voting for.

Nearly 349 million adults in 25 countries, stretching from the Atlantic to the
border of Russia, and from the Mediterranean Sea to Lapland, have the right to
put a cross in a box. The sixth direct elections to the European Parliament are
second in scale only to those in India.

It is portrayed as the culmination of the long march to full European democracy.

Just 60 years ago, during the Second World War, only four European countries the
United Kingdom, Ireland, Sweden and Switzerland -were free democracies. Now,
after the enlargement of the EU last month, most people and most countries in
the continent of Europe can for the first time take part in joint elections.

The voting starts today in Britain and the Netherlands, but continues around the
continent until Sunday, the day most countries are holding their ballot.

By treaty, countries must not reveal their results until the last of the polling
booths close at 9pm British time on Sunday. The Netherlands is insisting,
however, that political openness means that it must reveal its results
immediately, prompting the European Commission to threaten to take it to court.

Out of the 14,670 candidates, of whom a third are women, voters must select 732
people to send to the European Parliament for five years. The division of MEPs
is so heavily weighted towards small countries that speck-like Malta has one MEP
for every 80,000 citizens, while gargantuan Germany has one for every 830,000.

The candidates include two astronauts, a Nobel prize-winner, Olympic medallists,
an Oscar winner, a supermodel, a Eurovision Song Contest winner, a porn star,
assorted TV celebrities and Big Brother finalists. There are also serious
politicians, including half a dozen former prime ministers.

Many are trying to start new political careers, some are reviving flagging ones.

Others are tempted by the pay and perks: they will get the same salary as their
national MEPs, but generous allowances mean that they can easily add another
£100,000 to their incomes.

Despite the colourful cast list of candidates, however, the turnout is expected
to be very low. A recent study by the European Parliament suggested that only 48
per cent of the electorate will vote, just under the 49 per cent of the 1999
election. That was the first time the turnout had fallen below 50 per cent,
prompting a crisis of legitimacy: if people cannot be bothered to vote for the
Parliament, what right does it have to make laws?

The novelty of the first direct elections to the European Parliament in 1979
created a sense of excitement that prompted 63 per cent of the electorate to
cast their vote. But at every election since, the turnout has fallen.

The turnout has stayed high only in those countries where voting is compulsory -
Greece, Belgium and Luxembourg. Britain, as in most European issues, has shown
the least interest of all, with a turnout last time of 24 per cent.

Unlike national elections, European ones do not lead to a change in government,
and voters, unable to tell how their votes change the making of European law,
have stopped casting them.

The Parliament, widely seen among the public as a corrupt self-serving gravy
train, and with few of its members known by its citizens, has been struggling
valiantly to spark interest, even paying for cinema advertisements.

Despite repeated pleas from Brussels, in virtually no countries are the European
elections being fought on European issues. In most countries, the European
elections have descended into little more than a referendum on the government of
the day.

In Britain, however, the dramatic rise of the UK Independence Party has made
this European election more about Europe than most. The wave of Euroscepticism
that is engulfing the continent is also expected to boost many other Eurosceptic
parties, noticeably in Poland, Denmark, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic.

But the decline in interest in the Parliament has not been matched by
perceptions of its importance. According to EU polls, 54 per cent of European
citizens trust the European Parliament, 46 per cent think that it has more power
than their own national parliament, and 66 per cent think the European elections
are "very important".


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              185 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

Howard pledges tax cuts to stem tide of lost votes

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 519 words


THE Tory leader attempted to shore up his party's vote before today's local and
European elections with his strongest promise yet of tax cuts under a
Conservative government.

As the UK Independence Party threatened to drive down Conservative support to
just 24 per cent, Michael Howard used his last big interview of the campaign to
promise that a Tory government would cut taxes while allowing public spending to
rise modestly.

Abandoning the cautious language he has previously used when talking about tax
cuts, Mr Howard told BBC Radio 4: "As the economy grows we can begin to cut
taxation so people can keep more of their hard-earned money. That is the way you
get dynamic economies that create more jobs and better public services.

"It is a question of using the money more effectively and reducing taxation. As
the economy grows I can increase public spending, but at a lower rate that the
country can afford."

In the past, Mr Howard has said only that it is his ambition to cut taxes. He
has, however, been pressed by colleagues to say more about taxation to bolster
core support, and attract other voters who feel that they have been badly
squeezed by the Government. The party has been taken aback by the strong
following that the UKIP has managed to drum up in five weeks. Strategists had
been confident that the Tories' hard line on the EU would satisfy Conservative
and floating voters. The party opposes the new EU constitution, proposing
instead a flexible system of members choosing whether to co-operate more
closely.

More controversially, Mr Howard has said that he would renegotiate previous
treaties and win back control over key policy areas, including fishing. "Let's
have a new deal," he said yesterday. "If you want to integrate more closely that
is fine. We don't want to stop you doing what you want to do, as long as you
don't make us do what we don't want to do."

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, said Mr Howard had been driven into adopting
an extreme position on the EU becasue of the UKIP's success. "He is committed to
a wholesale renegotiation of Britain's existing EU treaty obligations, such as
the Common Fisheries Policy, agreed by the Conservatives in 1972, and overseas
aid, agreed by Michael Howard and John Major in 1991," Mr Straw said.

"The key issue, however, is what happens when Michael Howard fails to secure the
unanimous agreement of 24 member states to such fundamental change."

Labour Party strategists had expected plummeting support for Tony Blair to be
the main theme of the election campaign, and say privately they have been let
off the hook by the Tories' woes. They still expect major losses in town halls
and the European Parliament, with victory for Ken Livingstone as Mayor of London
the only victory.

The Liberal Democrats are hoping to win several big local authorities. Charles
Kennedy said that they could capitalise on disenchantment from Tory and Labour
voters with their own parties.

Anatole Kaletsky, page 20 Peter Riddell, page 20 Leading article and letters,
page 21 Mary Ann Sieghart, T2, page 3


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              186 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

Rebel Tory peers harden support for UKIP

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 318 words


MICHAEL HOWARD will receive a "serious bashing-up" at the hands of the
Conservative Party if the UK Independence Party do well in today's elections,
rebel peers said yesterday.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, who was one of the four peers expelled from the party
in the House of Lords for supporting the UKIP, said that he would not back the
Conservatives at the next general election if they did not change its policy on
Europe. He was joined by another rebel peer, Lord Willoughby de Broke, in this
stance, a significant toughening on their previous position, which was to
support the UKIP solely for today's European elections.

"I have always been a Conservative, but I very strongly feel that unless Michael
Howard changes his policy on Europe I will not vote for the Conservative Party
at the next election," Lord Willoughby told a press conference in the House of
Lords to announce their stand. "It is because they are not listening to their
own party on Europe." Members of the House of Lords can vote in European but not
general elections.

Lord Pearson said that if the UKIP did well in the elections Mr Howard's
leadership would be in trouble, and he would be censured by the 1922 Committee
of backbenchers. "I think the executive of the 1922 Committee will take it very
seriously and I would be very surprised if Michael did not get a very serious
bashing-up," Lord Pearson said. "I do not know anyone in the Lords who is not
going to vote for the UKIP, including chairmen and presidents of many august
Conservative associations."

He "could not care less" if the UKIP split the right-wing vote, because he hoped
that the Tories fared badly. "If the worst of results comes about, then the
better it will be for allowing those now in the middle position in the
Conservative Party to persuade the leadership to adopt an altogether tougher
stance and therefore make UKIP irrelevant."


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              187 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

It will be back to reality after election night chutzpah

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Features; 20

LENGTH: 909 words


When all the clutter is stripped away, the voters' message will be familiar

LABOUR is set today to have its poorest election results since 1997. Yes,
Labour.

The Conservatives may have had the worst of the campaign thanks to the UK
Independence Party celebrity boomlet, and may consequently have the most painful
inquest next week. But the Tories' troubles have distracted attention from
continuing public disenchantment with Labour.

We do not just have one election today, but a series of contests -local, London
and European -in which ticket splitting may produce contrasting results for the
main parties. A high proportion of the regular Tory supporters who may vote for
the UKIP in the European elections are likely to stick to their traditional
loyalties in the local elections.

Tonight, and especially tomorrow, when the main results come in, the headlines
will not be about the UKIP but about Labour losses to the Tories in southern
England and the suburbs, and to the Liberal Democrats in the inner cities,
especially in the North and in strongly Muslim areas. Labour strategists are so
worried about public expectations being distorted by the UKIP-Tory squabble that
they have been talking about how badly they expect to do in the local contests.

Labour could, they say, be eight to ten points behind the Tories.

Such counterspin is intended to lower expectations. But Labour is right to be
worried. The Government remains very unpopular. Every poll points to a fall in
Labour support compared with 2000, when most of these seats were last fought.

Labour expects many of its core supporters to desert, or stay at home. In
London, Ken Livingstone should still win, though this would be more a victory
for his rainbow politics than for new Labour, which may do less well than the
Tories in the Assembly elections.

But by Sunday night, to be more precise half-time in the England and France
game, the results in the European elections will provide a different picture. It
is then that the UKIP will have its hour in the sun at the Tories' expense, but
it will have to do very well to raise its current total of three MEPs to much
more than six or seven. Just because Robert Kilroy-Silk has received almost as
many column inches as David Beckham this week does not mean he is about to
become the Schwarzenegger or Le Pen of British politics. Mr Kilroy-Silk is
destined to be a small footnote, rather than a large chapter, in electoral
history.

The Tories may have the roughest evening on Sunday, but Labour is likely to do
even worse in the European elections than its 28 per cent share in 1999. The
beneficiaries of the decline in the Tory/Labour share to little more than 50 per
cent of the votes cast will not only be the UKIP but also the Liberal Democrats
and possibly the Greens.

Elections are all about perceptions and Labour leaders will be eagerly competing
for the Kenneth Baker award for election night chutzpah. When Tory chairman, he
sought to bury the party's terrible local results in May 1990 by highlighting
its successes in Wandsworth and Westminster. This time Labour is hoping that its
losses will be obscured by the Tories' infighting.

Indeed, in the past couple of weeks, some of the gloom has lifted from the Blair
inner circle. Mr Blair has seemed livelier, less encircled. No one is talking
about him resigning in the next few months (anyway a grossly exaggerated
threat).

The more positive news about Iraq -the nomination of the new government and the
unanimous UN resolution -has helped to lift Mr Blair's spirits, and to create a
sense that the worst may be over. Mr Howard's problems with the UKIP have been a
bonus.

Yet even Mr Blair's more positive advisers concede that this mood could be
punctured by bad results. Labour's share of the vote in both the local and
European elections will probably be as low as feared a month ago. Middle-class
and Muslim disillusionment over Iraq and working-class worries over crime,
immigration and public services have all played a part -along with boredom with
the Government after seven years in power.

The stupidest thing for Labour to do next Monday would be to gloat over the
Tories' discomfiture. A UKIP surge will be no guide to what happens in next
year's general election. Labour cannot count on the Tories' instinct for
panicking to win. A depressing feature of the past month has been the negative
campaigning by all three main parties. If there is one lesson that Ronald Reagan
taught, it is that hope and optimism always beat fear and pessimism.

Labour now needs to offer positive reasons why it should have a third term. Mr
Blair will quickly shift the focus to domestic issues, with the spending review
due at the end of the month, followed by the five-year reform plans for public
services. However bad today's results, Mr Brown will present his spending
decisions as integral to Labour's re-election. And Mr Howard made clear
yesterday that the Tories would soon be clarifying their plans for greater
choice in health and education.

As often with midterm elections, when all the extraneous clutter is stripped
away, the underlying message will be familiar. The Tories are still a long way
from being a credible alternative government; the Lib Dems remain strong
challengers to the party duopoly; and Labour is disliked, but not yet rejected
-a recipe for another half-hearted Blair victory next May.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              188 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

I'll vote for single-issue Ken, that is the easy bit

BYLINE: Anatole Kaletsky

SECTION: Features; 20

LENGTH: 1355 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE, who will almost certainly be re-elected today as the Mayor of
London, fully deserves the big majority he is likely to get. Tony Blair should
now follow his belated and opportunist decision to readmit Red Ken to the Labour
Party by a humble effort to learn from the mayor's success.

Mr Livingstone has proved himself to be Britain's most effective politician
since Margaret Thatcher: a man who identifies a problem, reduces it to
manageable proportions, decides what to do about it, explains his plans to the
public and then carries them through, regardless of opposition.

Whether you like or loathe his policies and his personality, you have to
acknowledge that he has done what he promised and, in the process, has
transformed everyday life in London. While it may be argued that reducing
traffic congestion and expanding the bus fleet are very limited achievements
when set against other challenges of urban politics -rampant street crime,
failing schools, chaotic hospitals, overcrowded housing and hellish conditions
on the Underground -Mr Livingstone has three overwhelming points in his favour.

First, achieving a spectacular traffic reduction in the centre of Europe's
biggest and fastest-growing city is no mean achievement. Most transport experts
had believed that experiments in road pricing were doomed to failure, and that
the only way to get traffic moving at reasonable speeds would be to impose
outright bans on private cars. Mr Livingstone's decision to challenge this
conventional wisdom in London was almost as remarkable as Rudolph Giuliani's
challenge to the conventional wisdom that street crime was inevitable in New
York. And for all the complaints from Britain's benighted motoring organisations
and timorous national politicians, the London experiment in congestion charging
has attracted almost as much international admiration as did Giuliani's
experiment with zero-tolerance policing.

Secondly, congestion charging was the only area of policy where central
government gave the Mayor of London full executive and budgetary power. It
therefore seems entirely fair to judge Mr Livingstone largely on this policy -at
least during his first term.

Thirdly, his relentless focus on transport has allowed Mr Livingstone to achieve
at least one clear public service objective. Thus he can now offer the voters a
standard by which to judge his first term, instead of flailing around like Mr
Blair in a rhetorical morass of conflicting promises and targets.

Combining these three arguments, I will have no hesitation in supporting Mr
Livingstone today, if only on the basis of his flagship policy, the congestion
charge.

Equally, the people who vote against Mr Livingstone will feel that they have
clear reason to do this. Most of them will be as strongly opposed to the
congestion charge as I am in favour. They will be misguided, in my view, since
the main arguments against congestion charging do not stand up to serious
economic scrutiny. The idea that charging is unfair to the poor is belied by the
strong correlation between car use -especially car commuting -with incomes. The
claim that reducing traffic damages retail businesses may have some merit, but
in the long run any loss of customers will largely be reflected in lower rents
and offset by the advantages of a more attractive environment. But these are
issues on which reasonable people can disagree quite strongly and is what
democracy should be all about. This is why voting in the London mayoral election
today will fill me with delight -and why the best idea to have come out of the
lacklustre campaign for the London election has been the Liberal Democrat
proposal that any extension of congestion charging (which I would strongly
favour) should be subject to referendums in the areas involved.

That is the good news about today's election, at least in London. But turning
from Mr Livingstone and his transport policies to the other issues,
personalities and parties on today's ballots is much more depressing and
confusing.

Although I make a decent living by explaining political and economic issues to
other people, I must confess that the 25-page instruction book on how to
exercise my own democratic rights in today's European and local elections is too
demanding for my analytical powers. Making sense of the four distinct voting
procedures - party lists, alternative votes, first-past-the post and
proportional representation -is beyond me. But even if I can unravel the
baffling instructions before the polls close this evening, I will then face a
much bigger challenge: to decide which candidates and parties to support.

Like every local and by-election, today's votes offer an opportunity to send a
signal to politicians without having to decide on a new government. But they
have two characteristics which I have never faced in secondary elections before.

The London mayoralty is an office with very limited powers, yet Mr Livingstone
has had more direct effect on my everyday life, through his transport policies,
than any other politician today. It really matters to me who gets this job, so I
must vote for Mr Livingstone regardless of the signals that this may send to
other politicians and parties, both in London and nationally. I would like to
signal my disapproval about Labour's poor performance in other areas of social
policy - especially the failure to tackle low-level street crime, which is now
recognised as the worst blight on British urban life. I cannot do this by voting
for the Tory mayoral candidate, because of his refusal to accept market
economics on the roads, but I have the opportunity to cast an anti-crime protest
vote for the Tories in the election for the London Assembly, which has virtually
no powers.

Turning to the European election, I face the opposite conjunction -an
institution with huge and rapidly growing powers, where whatever vote I cast
will send the wrong signal. Although the EU is now responsible for more than
half the laws and regulations governing British life and although I feel
passionately about European politics, I have no idea about the names of the
present London MEPs, nor even about their parties. I am not embarrassed to admit
this because the MEPs we elect today have no individual identities (the voting
instructions tell me to vote for a party list rather than any individuals on it)
nor any direct power in making EU laws.

This is not, as is often suggested, because the European Parliament is
inherently a powerless institution. Its powers to amend and even initiate
legislation are growing all the time. Rather, the MEPs are powerless and
irrelevant, because British politicians (with the possible exception of the
Greens and the Liberal Democrats) do not belong to any genuine pan-European
political movements and certainly do not endorse any unified European
manifestos. This is true not only of the Tories but also of Labour, which even
under Mr Blair is far less integrationist than the openly federalist European
social democratic parties with which it is nominally allied.

This means that British MEPs, whatever their party, are inevitably faced with a
Hobson's choice. Either they must accept permanent impotence by joining a small
rabble of anti-integrationist minor parties, which will be outvoted on every
important issue. Or they must go native in Brussels and join one of the two big
federalist blocs -the Social Democrats or the (right-wing) People's Party. This
would allow British MEPs to acquire some genuine influence and power, but only
at the cost of supporting the relentless integration and the steady encroachment
of European regulations into all areas of British life.

Faced with this dishonourable choice, it is understandable that so many Britons
will vote today for the UKIP. But I still believe that the EU is a useful
economic organisation, albeit mutating into a political monster. I will
therefore try to signal my resistance to the EU's transformation into a
political federation by voting "none of the above".

Join the Debate at comment@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              189 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

Decision day

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 607 words


Today may be polling day but it has few parallels with a general election. When
voters cast their ballots in the local and European contests, they should not be
passing judgment on the war in Iraq, the Government's management of the economy
or the Conservatives' plans for public services. Whatever the parties' election
broadcasts may claim, voters should be delivering verdicts on their local
councils' performance and on the parties' approaches towards the European Union.

Were this a general election, we would be judging both main parties on how far
they supported free markets, improved public services, expanded individual
choice and cultivated the transatlantic relationship. We would also weigh
heavily in the balance Tony Blair's courageous stance on Iraq, his decision to
allow the British people a referendum on the European constitution and Gordon
Brown's sound economic management.

If there were a general election today, Labour would deserve our support. But in
today's deliberations, these issues play little part. Nor are we, as a national
newspaper, well qualified to comment on local issues. In the European election,
though, there are powerful reasons to recommend a vote for the Conservatives
today.

Michael Howard has, in recent months, made a reasonably cogent and intelligently
argued moderate case on Europe. He and his party have campaigned poorly. But we
do know that he advocates a "live and let live" region, in which those states
that want to integrate further are free to do so without necessarily forcing the
others to join in. Equally, he has been prepared to argue the economic merits of
EU membership. His criticisms of the proposed EU constitution are coherent -and
a refreshing antidote to the wide-eyed naivety of some in Labour and the Liberal
Democrats. The Tory position, if enacted, would make the EU more modern and
flexible, a huge improvement on the current lumbering and intrusive regime whose
faults will be exacerbated by the new constitution.

Of course, no one country has the power to fashion the EU in its image. But a
bloc of moderate, reformist MEPs in the European Parliament could at least help
to curb the wilder integrationist plans of the Commission, whose bureaucratic
tendencies are in need of reforming. And the accession to the EU of like-minded
states should help to give this view more influence and encourage more sensible,
critical, serious debate in the Parliament.

Many in Britain will be tempted to vote today for the UK Independence Party
(UKIP). Such a vote, they think, would make them feel good and give a slap in
the face to conventional politicians.

Voting UKIP is a wasted vote. By definition, the party believes that debating
Britain's role in the EU is futile, given that leaving is its only policy. A
UKIP vote will not improve the EU itself. And Mr Blair will be able to dismiss
any surge in UKIP support as the visceral response of the disaffected.

By contrast, if the Conservatives were to do well today, he would be under
increasing pressure to curb his indulgence of his feel-good idealism. The Prime
Minister would be compelled to argue Britain's case even more strongly in the
negotiations on the constitution next week.

A dismal performance by the Tories would allow the continuing ascendancy of the
credulously pro-European tendency exemplified by Mr Blair, which fails to
reflect majority opinion. Conversely, a success for the Tories in the European
elections would be a victory for those who want to see a reformed EU. In
Britain, the Tories are not yet out of rehabilitation. In Europe, they can do
some good.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              190 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 9, 2004

WILL BRITAIN GIVE A X X X ?

BYLINE: EDWARD HEATHCOAT AMORY

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 34; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 2195 words


TOMORROW, Britain goes to the polls in an unprecedented triple election. We will
be choosing 78 MEPs to represent us in the European Parliament, a London Mayor
and 25 London Assembly Members, and 6,103 councillors across 166 local
authorities.

Not only is it the first time that Britain has held three significant elections
on one day, but 14million of us are the subject of an experiment in compulsory
postal voting that has already gone wrong.

All the indications suggest that the turnout will be very low. In the 1999
Euro-elections, only 24 per cent of eligible voters actually cast their ballots,
the lowest result anywhere in the EU. The campaign has been one of the most
low-key in living memory, and the Prime Minister will not even be in Britain on
election day. He will be in America, attending the G8 summit (he has,
apparently, already voted by post).

Not that his presence or absence on the day will make much difference. He has
done very little campaigning, and his picture has been deliberately kept off
party literature. Labour strategists believe that Mr Blair is too closely
associated with the Iraq war - their biggest problem with voters on the
doorstep.

The elections are hugely important to all three main parties not only because
those chosen by the voters will wield considerable power themselves, but also
because this is the last major test of public opinion before the next General
Election, expected next year. In addition, for Michael Howard, they are the
first elections since he replaced Iain Duncan Smith as Tory leader.

The political equation has been made even more complicated by the surprising
apparent success of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) and - in a few
isolated areas - the British National Party (BNP).

A recent national poll of European election voting intentions put Labour on 26
per cent, the Tories on 24 per cent, UKIP in an astonishing third place on 19
per cent, and the Liberal Democrats coming fourth with 15 per cent.

If this is reflected in the results, it will be a disaster for all three major
parties. But for Michael Howard in particular, it would place a serious question
mark over his ability to unseat Mr Blair next year. The Tory leader is already
chasing a tough target, set by William Hague in 1999 in the last European
elections, when the Tories came first with 36 per cent of the vote.

A 12 per cent fall - even though Howard would argue that most UKIP voters would
return to the Tory fold at the General Election - would be hard to explain away.
For the Liberal Democrats, fourth place behind UKIP would be equally
embarrassing, and further undermine the already very weak position of their
leader, Charles Kennedy.

Labour can probably get away with a bad result in the European elections.

They will be far more worried about the local elections and some Labour
strategists are predicting a meltdown in the North of England.

AWORST-CASE scenario would see them losing Newcastle-Upon-Tyne to the Liberal
Democrats, while the Tories took Trafford and - very significant - Birmingham. A
result such as this would panic many backbench Labour MPs, and renew debate on
whether Mr Blair should step down in favour of the Chancellor.

The London Mayoral elections are slightly less of a concern for Labour.

A Labour win will simply see Ken Livingstone claiming that he succeeded in spite
of his association with the Government. The results of 'Super Thursday' will
emerge in dribs and drabs. Most of the local election results, and those for the
London Mayor, should be available by late on Friday night, but we'll have to
wait until Sunday evening to discover how the parties fared in the European
elections.

On his return to Britain, Mr Blair may well find a changed political landscape.

POSTAL VOTING

THE Government has scrapped the ballot box entirely for local and European
elections in much of Northern England and is only permitting postal votes.

This will affect 14 million voters.

The result has been chaotic, with the ballot papers not ready in time for the
Royal Mail's delivery deadline. Many voters still hadn't received their forms by
yesterday, and emergency polling stations have had to be set up.

Those who have had their documents may not be better off; in some areas the
forms are 2ft-long and very confusing. Returning officers say 5 per cent of
postal ballots received so far are void because they haven't been correctly
filled out.

The Government claims that postal votes will increase turnout, but opponents
claim that they have introduced it as a means of increasing the Labour vote, as
voters will have posted their ballots before the final days of the campaign,
when support traditionally switches from Government to the Opposition.

A postal ballot is also 50 per cent more expensive than the traditional system,
and will make electoral fraud much more likely.

YOUR SAY IN EUROPE

THE council elections are run on the traditional British model of
first-pastthe-post, but the European elections use a proportional representation
system based on a party list.

On your ballot paper, under each party heading, you will find a list of names.

The number elected for each party will depend on the percentage of votes they
receive in each region. So if there are 10 MEPs from a region, and the Tories
get 10 per cent of the vote, they will have one MEP, who will be the one listed
first on the ballot paper. The parties chose the order in which the candidates
were placed on the ballot paper by asking local party members to vote.

The Liberals and Labour had postal votes, whereas only those party members who
attended the hustings were allowed to vote by the Tories.The result was that
large numbers of Eurosceptics attended the Tory hustings, pushing out several
pro-European Conservatives MEPs.

UKIP

AT THE last European elections, UKIP, which advocates withdrawal from the
European Union, won 7 per cent of the vote and sent three MEPs to Brussels.

This time around, some polls suggest that they could win 19 per cent of the
vote, which would give them around 13 seats in the European Parliament. UKIP has
a Pounds 2million campaign fund and high profile celebrity supporters, including
Joan Collins, Robert Kilroy-Silk, Geoffrey Boycott and disgraced ex-Tory MP
Jonathan Aitken..

Its support has grown recently because voters want an outlet for a protest vote;
only 51 per cent of their backers actually support the party policy of leaving
the EU.

A large vote for UKIP will hit the Tories hardest, as up to 25 per cent of Tory
voters at the last election are considering backing them.

BNP

THE British National Party is fielding candidates in each of the 12 European
Parliament regions, and another 450 candidates in council elections across
Britain and the London Assembly.

They claim to have abandoned racism, and have one Sikh and one Jewish candidate.
BNP party political broadcasts have been shown on all five main TV channels.

However, it is still their policy to attempt to 'repatriate' non-white
immigrants, and their leaders are regularly caught making outrageous
anti-Semitic or racist remarks in private.

Among the party's senior figures, there are numerous convicted criminals,
including those found guilty of assault, attempted bombing, hooliganism,
intimidation, theft, fraud and rape.

Their national press officer believes that blacks have a lower IQ than whites.
They remain the unacceptable face of democracy in Britain.

LONDON MAYOR

AFTER four years as an independent mayor, Ken Livingstone is up for reelection
as the official Labour Party candidate.

In a move of startling hypocrisy, the Prime Minister realised that no Labour
candidate would beat Ken, and welcomed him back into the party.

This is despite MrLivingstone's view that British troops should be pulled out of
Iraq immediately.

The gamble looks likely to pay off, with a recent poll showing Livingstone
beating Steve Norris, his Tory rival, by 58 per cent to 42 per cent once second
preference votes are included (voters have a secondchoice vote, which is
allocated after all but the top two candidates have been eliminated from the
poll).

But Labour may lose control of the 25-member London Assembly, meaning that the
Mayor couldn't get his budget through without opposition support. The main issue
is transport, with London still split down the middle on the congestion charge,
which Norris plans to abolish.

WHY VOTE IN ...

THE EUROPEAN ELECTIONS?

THE European Parliament is no longer an obscure talking shop. It is a powerful
legislating body which has huge influence over our lives.

If they wanted, our MEPs could do a great deal of good for Britain, exposing
waste and corruption in the EU, and blocking damaging legislation.

It was in 1992, at the Treaty of Maastricht, that the then Tory government
connived in the introduction of a system called co-decision. It meant that in
certain areas, limited at first, the Parliament could amend and even veto any EU
legislation.

The scope of co-decision has been gradually extended ever since. It now includes
the policing of our borders, civil legal procedures, transport, employment
policy, customs, social policy including health and safety and equal
opportunities, public health, consumer law, the environment, and much more. The
Parliament also has control - and a right of veto - over more than half of the
EU's annual Pounds 64 billion budget.

When you consider that half of our laws are now enacted in Brussels, it is
obvious that the European Parliament is at least as influential - if not more so
- than our domestic version in Westminster.

But the Brussels setup is rotten to the core. Its members ride around in
air-conditioned limousines. As well as their salary - the same as a Westminster
MP - they get a staff allowance of nearly Pounds 9,000 a month, and many of them
use that to employ members of their families.

Meanwhile, it waves through laws that have considerable implications for
Britain. Two new directives are about to cripple our vitamin and health food
market.

Then there is the Physical Agents (Vibration) Directive, which will make it
illegal for farmers to sit in tractors for more than a very limited number of
hours a day. The Temporary Work At Height Directive will stop window cleaners
going up high ladders.

The Parliament could be a force for good. In 1999, after much foot-dragging, it
forced out Jacques Santer and his fellow European Commissioners - the unelected
politicians who really run Europe - after a gruesome series of scandals.

So it is worth voting - and not just protesting - tomorrow.

WHY VOTE IN ...

THE LOCAL ELECTIONS?

THERE are two reasons for voting in the local elections.

First, councils spend a great deal of our money - Pounds 78 billion a year,
about 15 per cent of total government spending - and they do it very badly.

Second, ministers in Whitehall are desperate to take away planning - one of the
few things that local councils are reasonably good at - and hand it to unelected
regional bodies with orders to concrete over much of southern England.The answer
to both these dilemmas is a big turnout tomorrow, sending decent councillors to
work on our behalf, and a message to Mr Blair that voters still care about local
democracy.

Councils are responsible for two huge areas of our lives - social services and
schools.

On social services, their record is quite appalling. Last year, Tyrell Rowe,
aged 19 months, died at his parents'hands days after Hackney social workers
removed him from the at-risk register.There are too many similar stories, many
which could have been prevented by decently-run councils.

As for education, authorities continue to provide an extra wasteful layer of
bureaucracy between government and schools. But there are some areas that are
best left to local councils. Planning is one, where although the system is
riddled with inconsistencies and even corruption, it hasn't done a bad job at
protecting our green and pleasant land while allowing necessary development.

No longer.The Government believes we need to build millions of homes in the
South of England, and is determined that councils won't stop them.

So it is aiming to transfer many of their powers to unelected regional planning
bodies. Finally, the Government has been using the council tax as one of its
main stealth taxes, confident in the knowledge that no one cares about local
government.

The council tax take has gone up wildly above inflation, from Pounds 11billion
in 1997 to nearly Pounds 20billion next year.The Government has manipulated the
system by giving councils new responsibilities, but not money to pay for
them.This has to be raised from local taxpayers.

So, if we want better social services and education, if we don't want Mr
Prescott to concrete over our few remaining green fields and if we wouldn't mind
paying less in council tax, a good place to start would be by voting for a
decent councillor tomorrow.

UKIP's UGLY SECRET NEXT PAGE

END

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              191 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 9, 2004

UKIP's UGLY SECRET

BYLINE: NICK CRAVEN

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 36; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1873 words


PERHAPS for the first time in her life, Joan Collins looked a tad uneasy in the
limelight.

'I am not a political person,' said the usually outspoken actress when asked
about the policies of the UK Independence Party, to which she was very publicly
lending her support.

Ms Collins, 71, who once said 'the secret of having a personal life is not
answering too many questions about it' was clearly adopting the same approach
with her new political life - though she did admit to having never bothered to
vote before.

After a few comments about 'eroding ourselves to Brussels', the ageing screen
diva grandly swept out of the Nottingham photocall to promote her appearance at
the city's Theatre Royal. Maybe that was the real agenda all along.

Enter, stage left(ish), Robert Kilroy-Silk, erstwhile ex-Labour MP, former
daytime TV star and the UKIP's newest and most high-profile candidate in the
European elections, who was only too happy to speak on Joan's behalf.

'Joan Collins has very clear political views. She is very proud of her country.
There is no messing about with Joan Collins. She is in favour of being governed
by her own people, and she wants Britain to come out of Europe,' he said,
without apparently drawing breath. Perhaps Joan is a little more political than
she thought.

With or without her support, the European and local elections tomorrow will mark
something of a watershed for the fledgling UKIP, whose votes will come mostly
from disaffected Conservatives, rather than political virgins - even very
wellpreserved ones such as Ms Collins.

THE latest polls show it forging ahead of the Lib Dems and nipping at the heels
of the Conservatives in the European elections.

Kilroy-Silk, 62 - heading the UKIP's East Midlands list under the proportional
representation system - is on course to win a seat in Brussels.

He is also tipped as a new leader of the party which unites around two themes:
getting Britain out of the EU and blocking virtually all immigration, even from
EU countries.

Paradoxically, the party is campaigning to get as many MEPs as possible into
Europe first to 'report back', it says, on the wasteful Eurocrats though, as we
shall see, the UKIP's existing MEPS clearly enjoy the Brussels champagne
lifestyle.

It's a simple message, and the UKIP has run an amusing slapstick party political
broadcast where a figure in lederhosen (symbolising the EU Fisheries
Commissioner from landlocked Austria) is assaulted with a huge cod.

It also has a Pounds 2million fighting fund, largely from wealthy donors such as
retired Kent bookie Alan Bown and Yorkshire property millionaire Paul Sykes, a
former Tory Eurosceptic, to boost its appeal and profile.

But just what is it that unites the mixed bag of supporters ranging from
astronomer Patrick Moore to ex-England cricket captain Geoffrey Boycott, along
with possibly millions of others, if the polls are correct?

Can a single-issue party really present any more than an opportunity for a
protest vote which might backfire? Is it a Trojan horse for more extreme
far-Right groups like the BNP, or a political lightweight relying on gimmickry
rather than policies?

The UK Independence Party was formed in 1993 by a loose grouping of anti-EU
politicians, most of whom were former Tories. Its early campaigning was largely
drowned out by the larger and better-funded Referendum Party, founded by the
late billionaire Sir James Goldsmith.

FOLLOWING Goldsmith's death in 1997, many of his former supporters transferred
their affections - and money - to the UKIP. The 1999 Euro elections brought the
first taste of success at the polls when three MEPs were returned, but a period
of brutal infighting followed, which appeared to weaken the party considerably.

But perceived Tory dithering over plans for an EU constitution has been an
effective recruiting sergeant for the UKIP, and the financial backing of several
businessmen who formerly bankrolled the Conservative Party has allowed it to get
its message to a much wider audience.

Its creed is simple, and designed to capitalise on the powerlessness felt by
Britons in the face of the encroaching European superstate: everything wrong
with Britain is the fault of Brussels, and once we're free of the shackles of
the Rome, Maastricht and Nice treaties, Blighty will be as good as it used to
be. At that point, with its job done, the UKIP says it will melt away and let
others get on with ruling Britain. It accepts that its ambition of a Britain
free from Europe is unlikely to be realised in the foreseeable future so, to
help further its message, it is contesting seats in tomorrow's local elections
as well as the London Mayoral race.

So who are these little-known patriots giving the Tories a run for their money?

Many are high-profile defectors from Right and Left, such as Kilroy-Silk and the
former Tory party member Sir Richard Body.

Five Tory peers have now joined Lord Pearson of Rannoch and signed up to the
UKIP's brand of nationalism.

But, as the Daily Mail has found, they are joining a party with a distinctly
unsavoury hinterland.

Several key members of the UKIP have past associations with far-Right groups
whose policies have either verged on racism, or clearly crossed the line.

New party members are required to renounce any affiliation with extremists, but
perhaps the UKIP would do better to examine those already in its ranks, for the
-questionable political baggage of some members could cause voters to pause
before they put a cross next to UKIP on the ballot form.

Its leaders claim to be alive to the risk of infiltration from the extremist
British National Party, and say such a plot was unmasked and dealt with earlier
this year when six members were expelled, after alleged emails between certain
members of the group and BNP sources were discovered.

There are, after all, two key similarities between the manifestos of the two
parties: both are anti-European Union and anti-immigration. Neither has much of
note to say about any other issue.

At one stage there was talk - admittedly, most of it from the much weaker BNP -
of a merger, or at least a gentlemen's agreement whereby the parties would not
stand against each other. Nothing came of it, but doubts remain about just what
really motivates the UKIP.

AND two of the most influential figures in the UKIP - national chairman Mike
Nattrass and Jeffrey Titford, an MEP and former Party Leader - are past members
of a fringe group called the New Britain Party. Another of the UKIP's MEP
candidates, Bryan Smalley, was on the national committee of New Britain.

Let us cast our eyes back to a 1977 by-election leaflet for the New Britain
Party. It demanded that 'coloured immigration to this country must stop
completely and immediately'.

That year, its founder, former City businessman Dennis Delderfield, stood at a
London by-election on such a racist ticket, and advocated a return to National
Service and gave fulsome support to Ian Smith's Rhodesia and the Apartheid-era
South African government.

All three of the UKIP men freely admit their involvement with New Britain, but
all claim to be unaware of Delderfield's racist propaganda in the past.

Questioned recently about his candidature for New Britain in the 1994 Dudley by-
election, Sutton Coldfield businessman Mr Nattrass began wearily: 'Do we have to
go into this?' Of the New Britain Party, he said: 'It isn't what you're thinking
it might be. It's not racist. It's more interested in celebrating the Queen's
birthday and things like that. It still exists, and it's a Eurosceptic party,
but the UKIP is electable and New Britain isn't.'

Jeffrey Titford, a onetime member of the Referendum Party, told the Mail his
involvement with New Britain was 'very fleeting'.

'It was after Sir James Goldsmith had died in 1997 and I was looking for an
anti-European Party,' he said. 'Mr Delderfield said if I wanted to come to a
meeting, I had to join, so I did. It was a shambles and I didn't stay long.'

Bryan Smalley, a retired Naval Commander from Hertfordshire, joined New Britain
in 1994, and served on its national committee, because, he said: 'It was the
only party on the (anti-EU) scene.' He added: 'I found the organisation rather
shambolic and I moved on. To call it extreme Rightwing is exaggerated.' Even if
they knew nothing of Mr Delderfield's earlier campaign, questions remain: was it
just political na'vety which prevented these UKIP luminaries from seeing Mr
Delderfield for what he was?

More pertinently, was their decision to leave New Britain more to do with
political expediency than a difference of ideology?

If the alleged comments of Nigel Farage, one of the UKIP's three MEPs are
anything to go by, he'd get on famously with a man like Mr Delderfield.

According to one of the UKIP's founders, historian Alan Sked, who has now left
the party, Mr Farage once told him: 'We will never win the nigger vote.

The nig-nogs will never vote for us.' 'I was quite shocked,' said Dr Sked, a
lecturer at the London School of Economics. 'Others just thought it was Nigel
being funny, but to me it wasn't funny at all.' MARRIED City commodities broker
Mr Farage, 40, from Kent, - who bears a striking resemblance to Rowan Atkinson's
Mr Bean - denies making the remarks, but declined to comment on other
allegations concerning his nocturnal activities in London and Strasbourg
nightspots.

Prospective voters may be interested to hear that he quaffed Pounds 100a-bottle
champagne in seedy lap-dancing clubs, given his party's pledge to root out and
'report back' on EU sleaze.

Former UKIP research director Richard North - also a refugee from the party -
said of Mr Farage: 'I am not, and was not prepared . . .

to pour him into a taxi when he was so blind drunk that he could no longer
stand, or cover for him when he failed to turn up for morning appointments
because he had been out on the tiles all night.' That, he said, was why Mr
Farage missed the crucial vote on the 2001 EU budget. None of this seemed to
matter much to 100 or so erstwhile Tory voters I saw at a UKIP election meeting
in Denham, Buckinghamshire recently, most of them clearly in rapture over Mr
Farage's tub-thumping oratory.

Certainly, you can't help smiling when he rejects rivals' claims that the UKIP
is a single issue party by saying: 'That is completely untrue.

'We have a comprehensive manifesto ranging from Agriculture to Xenophobia.

If only theirs were as broad!' One after another, members of the audience told
me the same story that night. They were there because 'We've been sold a pup
with Europe, and no one's telling us the truth apart from this party.'

Their resentment at the EU is understandable, but aren't they in danger of
buying a second pup if they send more MEPs like Mr Farage off to enjoy a
five-yearlong European 'party' at their expense?

One thing is beyond doubt - if enough Conservatives - or even ingenues like Joan
Collins - register their protests by voting UKIP, they will surely deliver a
gift-wrapped victory to those whose European policies they fear most - Tony
Blair and his Government.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ON THE OFFENSIVE: NIGEL FARAGE DENIES THE UKIP IS A SINGLE-ISSUE PARTY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              192 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 9, 2004

Time to decide if Europe is friend or foe to Britain

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 261 words


THE UK Independence Party damns the 'unelected European bureaucrats in Brussels,
ripping off the British', while advocating that we withdraw from the EU.

This party would have voters believe that Britain can 'pick and mix' its
commercial relationship with the EU - avoiding the costs and responsibilities of
EU membership, while reaping the benefit of trade with those neighbours who
remain within our continent's commercial 'club'.

If that was a sensible option, everyone would have done it years ago.

Let us put aside for one moment the UKIP's bedtime story for gullible adults and
start addressing reality.

If we pull out of the EU, Brussels will legislate for every facet of our trading
relationship with its members - and if that legislation proves to be draconian
and disastrous to British interests, what will we be able to do about it when we
are on the outside?

Nothing.

The UKIP has bombarded the electorate with statistics about how many more
hospitals, nurses, doctors, policemen, etc., we could afford if we pulled out of
the EU.

Sounds great, doesn't it - until you realise that it would never happen because
we'd spend all that saved revenue (and more) on dole payments to most of the
hundreds of thousands of British workers whose jobs are dependent on our
membership of the EU.

Why waste your vote trying to recapture a political vision of Britain which died
with Queen Victoria, when we can look forward to our nation playing a major role
in shaping the Europe of the future?

TONY THORN, Bordon, Hants.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              193 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 9, 2004

Squander the D-Day legacy at your peril

BYLINE: ALLAN MASSIE

SECTION: ED_SC1_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 847 words


THE commemoration of D-Day was moving, as it could scarcely fail to be. Those of
us who belong to generations of whom so much less had been demanded can only
marvel at the courage of those who fought, while being thankful that we have not
had to do likewise. Next year will see the 60th anniversary of victory, and
that, I suppose, will be the last of the commemorations to have such resonance.

By the time the 70th anniversaries come round, almost all the servicemen who
survived, the war will be dead. We shall still pay tribute to them on
Remembrance Sunday, but it won't be the same.

In any case it is surely time we put the wars of the 20th century behind us.

They are a proud part of our history, but history is now what they are and where
they belong.

And we have to admit what we sometimes shrink from acknowledging: that our
victory in 1945 was flawed. Despite the heroism of D-Day and the Italian and
North African campaigns, it was Stalin's Red Army that broke Nazi Germany, and
Stalin's tyranny was as brutal as Hitler's. Yet, but for the toll that the Red
Army took on the Wehrmacht, D- Day itself would have been impossible.

We remember it as a war for freedom and democracy, and so it was, in the West.
The present happy state of Europe was made possible by our victory.

But one lesson of the war, often ignored, is that men will fight as bravely for
a bad cause as for a good one.

German soldiers fought and died as courageously as British and American ones.
Indeed, if Hitler's regime had not been so utterly vile, the defiance of the
German army in the last year of the war, hopelessly outnumbered, inferior in
material, would rank as one of the outstanding fears of heroism in the long and
awful history of warfare.

The politicians of the generation that survived the war learned its lesson that,
to make sure the awful experiences of 1914-18 and 1939-45 were not repeated, the
states of Europe must substitute cooperation for conflict. That realisation led
to the agreements that brought about the present European Union.

No doubt there is much that is wrong with it. As Scott has his Glasgow merchant,
Bailie Nicol Jarvie, say in Rob Roy speaking of the Treaty of the Union between
Scotland and England: 'There's naething sae gude on this side o' time but it
might hae been better, and that may be said o' the Union.'

But, he insisted, it had led to peace and prosperity and the same may be said of
the succession of treaties and agreements that have been made the present
European Union.

NOW, just as many Scots would like to see that old Union of 1707 destroyed, so
also, according to a poll this week, 20 per cent of us are prepared to vote on
Thursday for the UK Independence Party which would have Britain withdraw from
the EU.

Many of them are in their own mind patriots who may have been among the most
wholehearted celebrants of D-Day these past few days.

The paradox of their position is that they want to destroy what D-Day made
possible a Europe united in friendship, united by agreements freely negotiated
and not by war.

Of course another European war is unlikely whether Britain is in or out of the
European Union. All sorts of developments commercial, social, technological and
political have brought us to this happy point.

Nevertheless it is foolish to suppose, as the UKIP seems to, that Britain can
enjoy all the privileges of membership of the open, free market of Europe,
without sharing in the responsibilities of the EU and making the occasional
concessions to the interests of other member states.

AEUROPEAN Union of which Britain was not a member state would from time to time
seem to act against us.

Meanwhile, in foreign policy, we would have condemned ourselves to the permanent
status of an American satellite.

There are political parties in other European states as hostile to the EU as the
UKIP is. There is Jean-Marie Le Pen's National Front in France and Umberto
Bossi's Northern League in Italy. Both look back nostalgically to the days of
fully independent nation states in Europe, to a time when competing interests
resulted in conflict, not settlement by negotiated compromise a more exciting
time; and a worse one.

As a result men died in the trenches and on the beaches. If we are to continue
remembering D-Day with reason and not merely as an exercise in sentiment, let us
also remember the lesson that the statesmen of post-war Europe tried to put into
practice that differences are better settled around the table than in the field,
and that this can best be done within a political structure.

D- Day led us to the European Union we have today. It made a Europe united in
peace and friendship possible. True patriotism now requires us not to break that
union, but to make its institutions work effectively. It is in Britain's
interests, as it is in the interest of France, Germany and the other member
states.

That is why the UKIP is an anti-patriotic party. We'll all be worse off in
almost every way if it achieves its aims.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              194 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  June 9, 2004

BLAIR'S FACING 'SUPER' SHAKER

BYLINE: by MACER HALL Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 202 words


TONY BLAIR and Michael Howard are facing a humiliating trouncing in tomorrow's
elections.

Opinion polls last night showed that both Labour and the Tories were being
squeezed out by smaller parties in the battle for votes.

With parties such as the Greens and the UK Independence Party on the rise, the
results could mean a big shake-up for British politics.

Tomorrow has been dubbed "Super Thursday" because so many elections are being
held on the same day.

Across Britain, members of the European Parliament are being voted in.

This parliament consists of 732 MEPs - chosen by voters in 25 European countries
- who monitor what the EU gets up to.

It can pass laws that affect the lives of millions of people across Europe,
including on asylum and immigration, health, consumer protection and animal
welfare.

In many parts of Britain, voters will also get to choose councillors who help
run local services, such as schools, police, street cleaners, rubbish
collectors, libraries and parking.

And in London, there's also an election for the city's Mayor.

But apathy could prove to be the biggest winner.

Just one in four people are expected to cast their votes tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              195 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 09, 2004, Wednesday

Howard vows to roll back power of Brussels in plea to Tory voters

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 429 words

MICHAEL Howard seeks today to rally flagging support for the Tories in the
European elections by committing his party to defending Britain as an
independent nation state and reversing the flow of powers to Brussels.

Writing in The Daily Telegraph on the eve of the biggest test of electoral
opinion since the 2001 general election, he says the Conservatives want fishing,
overseas aid and the social chapter, which covers employment legislation,
returned to national control.

It would represent the first rolling back of the continual transfer of national
sovereignty to Brussels under successive governments since Britain joined the
Common Market more than 30 years ago.

Mr Howard claims that if Labour remained in power, Britain would cease to be a
"nation state". He says the Government has tabled more than 275 amendments to
the proposed European Constitution, but only 10 have been accepted.

Mr Howard's decision to stress his Euro-sceptic credentials will be seen as a
last-ditch attempt to halt a desertion of Tory voters to the anti-Brussels UK
Independence Party.

The Conservative leadership has been wrong-footed by the impact of the UKIP,
with polls suggesting it is winning the support of many Conservative voters who
want a tougher line towards the EU than Mr Howard has offered.

Mr Howard argues that only the Tories - who are in a position to form a
government - could "deliver" the return of powers from Brussels and be prepared
to say No to the rest of the EU.

He has been stung by criticism that his decision to ally with the European
Parliament's most federalist bloc, the European People's Party, has alienated
many grass-roots Tories.

The Conservative leadership argues that the alliance gives them greater power
and influence in the European Parliament. But many Tory supporters feel let down
because the EPP manifesto backs the new European constitution and calls for
obligatory membership of the euro, a Euro-army, a European prosecutor and
EU-wide taxation.

"I know some Telegraph readers are concerned about our alliance with the EPP,"
Mr Howard writes. "But the most Euro-sceptic party in the EU - the Czech ODS led
by President Vaclav Klaus - is a member too.

"Like Vaclav Klaus, I believe in fighting for change from within Europe."

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, last night accused Mr Howard of "panicking"
and claimed he was desperate to shore up his fractured party on Europe.

"The real threat is the Tory policy of disengagement and isolation which would
put British jobs, British trade and British prosperity at risk."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              196 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 09, 2004, Wednesday

London's battle of the cheeky chappies Mayor will be elected on personality not
policies, reports Harry Mount at the street hustings

BYLINE: by Harry Mount

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 628 words

"IF YOU don't vote for me on Thursday, you'll wake up under Steve Norris on
Friday morning," is Ken Livingstone's killer line. When he delivered it to the
girls working behind the fish stall in Brixton Market yesterday, he had them in
stitches.

The fish stall manager, Clyde Godden, 46, was less impressed: "These girls will
vote for him because he's the only one they've heard of. I don't mind him too
much - at least he loves London. But I hate the Labour Party, they're so
subservient to America."

Love Ken/Hate New Labour was the cry, too, of Tony Benn, now 79 and delighted to
be back on the stump, with the fish stall listening agog from behind their trays
crammed with red snapper for the local West Indian custom.

"I left Parliament to devote more time to politics," said Mr Benn.

The fishwives started giggling again.

"Ken's fantastic," Mr Benn continued. "He was so successful at the GLC that Mrs
Thatcher had to destroy democracy to get rid of him."

That was the story across London yesterday: people planning to vote for the
mayor on personal grounds, with little or no knowledge of the policies. The
candidates are left having to fill the vacuum with pure bottled
cheeky-chappiness.

A few miles across south London, in Putney, Mr Norris was brushing off his Ken
Livingstone impression as he tried to remove some chewing gum from his shoe.

"I'm going to do something Livingstonian; I'm going to outlaw it," he said,
swapping his Scouse accent for the nasal tones of Livingstone's native Tulse
Hill. "I'm going to shoot them. Death to anyone who drops chewing gum."

The Livingstone and Norris charm show fades into insignificance, though, in the
face of the UK Independence Party candidate Frank Maloney, the diminutive
ex-manager of the former World Heavyweight Champion Lennox Lewis.

Mr Maloney, who had started the morning in deepest Chislehurst in the outer
fringes of Kent, had heard that Mr Livingstone was on the hustings and had
ordered his open-topped double-decker bus straight to Brixton, round the South
Circular.

His entourage included two glamour models in tight white T-shirts and hot pants.
One, Katie Jordan, 27, said: "I love Frank's policy 'Kids on playing fields, not
on crack'."

Also with Mr Maloney was a friend, Stephan Feix, 42, a professional David Jason
lookalike. "I started doing it when Open All Hours began," he said. "I never
watched it but my mother kept on saying I looked like this bloke on the telly.

"I've done all sorts of appearances ever since, for money. But this is for free,
because of UKIP. I used to be a long-distance lorry driver; we were killed by
the cheap diesel on the continent."

Once they'd parked the bus and Mr Feix's yellow Reliant Robin - "From Peckham to
City Hall" emblazoned on its side - the Maloney retinue headed into Brixton
market to confront Ken.

Mr Maloney was an impressive sight as he made his way along Electric Avenue,
flanked by Del Boy, the models, four of his boxers and the actor P H Moriarty,
who played Razors in The Long Good Friday and Hatchet Harry in Lock, Stock and
Two Smoking Barrels.

"I'm voting for Frank because he'll ban those replica guns that they can convert
into shooters," said Moriarty, as we approached Ken. A shocked Mr Livingstone,
shaking hands with his rival, said: "The chances of us meeting are slimmer than
one of your boxers winning."

"How dare you? My boxers always win," said Mr Maloney.

"You're a racist," Tony Benn interjected.

"How can I be?" said Maloney, gesturing in the direction of one of the boxers he
used to manage, Peter Oboh, 35, the Ghanaian-British light heavyweight,
Commonwealth, British and WBA champion, thoughtfully fingering a golden Lonsdale
belt that glinted in the sun.

And the fishwives laughed on.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              197 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 09, 2004, Wednesday

Clue to result of general election lies with how we vote for councils

BYLINE: By Philip Johnston Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 796 words

TOMORROW'S local elections are being held in the shadow of the contests for the
European parliament and the mayoralty of London. But their outcome will arguably
represent a more important pointer to the fortunes of the political parties.

Recent opinion polls have suggested that many voters are planning to use the
Euro-elections to register a protest against Europe, the Government, or even the
Tories. The surveys indicate that the UK Independence Party will be the
principal beneficiary of such scatter-gun voting.

But when it comes to choosing who should run their local authority, voters will
be more inclined to revert to mainstream parties. If tomorrow's contests are to
give any indication of a possible general election outcome, it will be found in
the council results.

With all the 36 metropolitan districts in England up for grabs, this is a good
year to test whether the Conservatives are making any inroads in the towns and
cities from which they have almost been eradicated.

In some authorities, such as Newcastle, Manchester and Liverpool, there is not a
single Tory councillor. Outside London, where there are no borough elections
this year, the party controls just one big urban council - Solihull.

This year, the tide must show signs of turning if the Tories are to be in a
position to win a general election.

If they can get 40 per cent of the total vote - something they have not achieved
in any election since 1992 - they would make between 300 and 350 gains. Such a
result would see the Tories back in control of Bury, Calderdale, Dudley,
Trafford and Walsall.

It is possible that they could win back Bradford - which was Tory-controlled in
the late 1980s - Coventry and N Tyneside. They should end up the largest party
in Birmingham, even if they are unlikely to take control of the city.

A poor night for Labour could see them losing control in Newcastle and Cardiff
to the Lib Dems. Leeds, North Tyneside and Wolverhampton could also be lost. The
Lib Dems are also looking to pick up St Albans, Watford and Kirklees.

Outside the big cities, there are elections in 19 unitary authorities and 89
district councils in England and 22 unitary councils in Wales. The English
shires should provide rich pickings for the Conservatives if they are showing
strong signs of recovery.

Election experts believe the Tories need to make net gains of 300 seats to claim
a successful night. However, even a 40 per cent share would not be enough to put
the Conservatives back in power at Westminster because they need more votes than
Labour to win each seat.

This is because Labour constituencies tend to have fewer voters, the party gains
from the over-representation of Scotland and Wales at Westminster and the
average turnout in safe Labour seats is lower, so fewer votes are needed to
return a Labour MP.

In a general election, therefore, the Tories could poll 40 per cent and Labour
36 per cent yet the latter would have 60 more seats.

If Labour and the Tories secured an equal number of votes and the Lib Dems
performed as well as they did in 2001, then Labour would have 140 more seats
than the Tories. Once they get over the 40 per cent mark, however, seats start
to fall readily to the Conservatives.

This is the electoral mountain that the Tories have to scale and, realistically,
they would need to poll 42 per cent or more of the vote tomorrow to suggest that
they have a chance at the general election.

The share of the vote is the simplest indicator of Tory fortunes as the local
elections themselves will be difficult to interpret because many councils have
new boundaries.

Labour will be watching anxiously to see whether the Iraq war has had a big
impact on its vote. Many of the party's supporters - especially Muslims - may
decide to stay at home in protest.

If the party loses 400 seats and its share of the vote is much under 30 per
cent, then there will be signs of panic at Labour HQ. This would be a defeat on
a par with those suffered by the Tories in their darkest days in the mid-1990s
under John Major.

The difference this time is that Labour votes may switch to the Liberal
Democrats or other parties, rather than straight over to the Tories.

Indeed, the Lib Dems are specifically targeting Labour, hoping to benefit from
an anti-war backlash in the cities.

The Lib Dems are looking to improve a local government base that has remained
largely unchanged for a decade or more. Today they have the same number of
councillors - about 4,500 - as in 1994.

The Tories have the largest number of councillors, with 7,700 compared to
Labour's 7,200. However, in 1990, the Conservatives held almost 10,000 seats.
They still have a long way to go before fully restoring their traditional power
base in local government.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              198 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 09, 2004, Wednesday

Peace in Europe could cost too much

BYLINE: by Janet Daley

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 22

LENGTH: 965 words

Are any of you actually planning to use your vote tomorrow to elect somebody you
like? Thousands of Labour supporters are apparently either going to stay at home
or vote against their leader to teach him a lesson (about Iraq, or betraying
socialist principles, or whatever). Tory voters are going to turn out in droves
for the UK Independence Party in order to send a signal to Michael Howard about
his policy on Europe. What with all this punishing and signal-sending, most
people seem to have written off entirely the old-fashioned purpose of elections.
Maybe they have a point.

The idea of democracy - if you remember - was government of the people, by the
people and for the people. You voted politicians into office because you
believed (or had some reason to hope) that they understood your needs and
desires and would represent them. This was "your" government, composed of people
who shared your basic values and your historical culture. The political scene
was composed of factions and parties that might have argued ferociously but that
had a common frame of reference and collective memory (not to mention a common
language).

What sense can we make of something that poses as a democratic process, but will
elect people to take part in the business of a government that denies that it is
a government, and whose decisions are not accountable, or even intelligible, to
most voters?

Well, it's pretty useless as an election, but it makes an excellent arena for
giving your party a good kicking. This is what is most alarming about the voting
intentions that seem to be emerging this week.

It is not the unfathomable consequences of electing minority parties, or the
breakdown of traditional loyalties. It is the almost universal belief that the
point of democracy - the sense that you are voting for something that will make
a difference to how you are governed - has become irrelevant. The European
Parliament seems so remote, ineffectual and absurd that you may as well elect
MEPs whose goal is to pull out of it, who will arrive with the sole objective of
abolishing their own jobs. What a wonderfully anarchic travesty that makes of
the whole enterprise.

But if British alienation retains its inevitable irony, European disaffection is
getting rather more hard-edged. Voters here may use pointless votes to send
messages to their party leaders, and to indulge their sense of the ridiculous
(sending members to the European legislature who would like to wind it up), but
on the Continent, they are facing more serious consequences of democratic
frustration.

The rise of Jean-Marie Le Pen may not be so surprising: France has always had a
fascist element ready to exploit any sense of political dissatisfaction. But the
emergence of the far Right in traditionally liberal countries such as the
Netherlands - a tendency that has survived the assassination of Pim Fortuyn - is
a sign that cannot be ignored.

Large numbers of European voters now feel that power over government is
effectively out of their hands, and they are notoriously volatile. In this
country, people react to their disfranchisement by putting up two fingers to the
politicians who have landed them in this infuriating mess. In many other
countries, they have an alarming tendency to take to the streets and throw
things.

Watching the D-Day commemoration over the weekend, it was impossible not to
understand the mistake on which all this was based. The Second World War (and
the one before that, too) seemed to be caused directly by nationalism. It seemed
reasonable enough to conclude that the hideous crimes committed in the name of
nation states must never be permitted again. Ergo, the idea of nationality
itself, with all its romantic myth-ology and historical baggage, must be
extirpated.

France and Germany, and then all the lesser players that lined up on one side or
the other, must be bound into an economic dependence and a political union that
would make it impossible for them ever to fight a war against one another again.
Like generals who are fighting the last war, the architects of the European
Union were determined to preserve the conditions of the last peace.

Transcending national loyalty and identity was to be exalted for ever as the
goal of enlightened peoples.

But it was not national identity itself that caused the monstrous crimes
committed in its name, or the two world wars. It was totalitarianism and
economic insecurity. It is not necessary to supersede every country's unique
institutions, and drive a stake through the heart of its historical character,
in order to preserve the peace. What is necessary are reliably responsive
democratic governments, and free market economics that permit every citizen to
feel that he owns a stake in the future.

Prosperous, stable democracies do not go to war with one another. What the EU is
doing, perversely, is creating forms of government that move away from this
direct, transparent democracy, in favour of impenetrable bureaucratic agencies
that make people feel powerless and politically dispossessed. And so the
extremists are on the march again, showing just the ugly face that this whole
project was supposed to render obsolete.

The Europhiles dismiss this concern. They cannot or will not see that a
combination of unaccountable government, and economic policies that depress
wealth creation and create unemployment, makes a dangerous cocktail. It is
precisely those things that lead to desperation, genuine extremism and,
ultimately, violence.

Of course, the great pan-

European, post-nationalist entity may well implode before we reach that
terrifying stage, and collapse under the weight of its own contradictions, as
communism did. Whether it will unravel as peacefully remains to be seen.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              199 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 9, 2004

UKIP SURGE WILL WOUND TORIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 148 words


THE rise of the UK Independence Party could seriously damage the Tories and the
Scottish National Party in tomorrow's Euro-elections.

An opinion poll suggests the UKIP could win one of Scotland's seven seats within
the European Parliament.

According to a YouGov poll for the Daily Telegraph, the UKIP could wrest the
anti-Euro vote from the Tories.

Registering 11 per cent in the poll, it is level with the Tories who are down
from 20 per cent in 1999.

The Nationalists are faring badly at 21 per cent, six per cent down on their
performance last time.

But Scots Tory leader David McLetchie insisted yesterday: "We have spent the
last five years proving polls wrong. I have no doubt that on Thursday we can do
so again."

SNP leader John Swinney said: "The European election is a two-horse race between
the SNP and Labour.

"Only the SNP can defeat Labour."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              200 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 9, 2004

UKIP SURGE WILL BOOST BLAIR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 155 words


A SURGE in support for the anti-Brussels UK Independence Party will deliver Tony
Blair another landslide triumph next year, Tory strategists fear.

Ukip is expected to poll well over 10 per cent in tomorrow's EU elections, aided
by the campaigning skills of Robert KilroySilk. Analysis by the Daily Express
shows that Ukip, which draws most of its support from Eurosceptic former Tory
voters, could play a key role in saving the marginal seats of more than 40
Labour MPs at the general election, expected next May.

Some 15 Liberal Democrats could benefit and around 20 Tories could lose their
seats.

Senior Tory MP David Heathcoat-Amory called for his party to do more to
highlight the finding that a vote for Ukip in a general election will actually
help pro-Brussels parties.

Lib Dem strategist Chris Rennard predicted: "There are several Tory big names
who could be swept away if Ukip increases its share."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              201 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 9, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; THERE IS ONLY ONE PROTEST VOTE

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 152 words


THE rise of the UK Independence Party is a serious worry for the Conservatives,
who had hoped to do well in Thursday's vote for the European elections after a
string of minor by-election successes at local level. The problem for the major
parties is that the European elections are traditionally considered to be a
chance to register a protest vote. In the Tories' case, this is complicated by
the fact that there is a hard anti-Europe vote within the Scottish electorate
and it is increasingly likely to be given to the UKIP. This would be a grave
mistake.

The UKIP will remain, whatever successes it has on Thursday, a fringe
organisation with no hope of power or any influence within the EU. If people are
seriously intent on sending a message to Brussels indicating that they are
dissatisfied with the power of the EU and the way it is run, they should vote
for the Scottish Tories, not the UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              202 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 9, 2004

LEADER - HOW THE VOICE OF THE UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY IS SENDING A SHUDDER OF
ALARM THROUGH BRITAIN S POLITICAL ESTABLISHMENT; THE REAL KILROY

BYLINE: DAVID ROBSON

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1086 words


IF ROBERT KILROY-SILK was hurt by what some people wrote about him, he would
have given up long ago, because people love to be nasty about him.

Arrogant, vain, selfish, racist, money mad, ruthless - you name it. But Kilroy
says he is not hurt by that kind of thing. How do you cope with it, I ask,
interested to know what makes the sort of man you can't knock down.

"Easy, " he says, "I don't read it. People I trust read it for me. I ask them,
'do I need to read it? Can I sue? If not, don't tell me about it.'" It is
sensible not to believe the famous when they say that kind of thing. But if
Kilroy was fazed by any of this, he would have chucked it in long ago.

He knows all the old stuff will come up - the former employees who say he was a
bullying boss, his illegitimate son - but Kilroy is a man who walks through
punches and, in his time, has thrown a few at people who have got up his nose.

He also once punched a man at a dinner party for making a racist remark.

Other guests pretended they hadn't heard. For a man who is famously smooth, he
can cut up famously rough.

In his 61 years, which began in abject poverty in Birmingham, living in a
back-to-back with six families sharing one lavatory, he has moved from 11+
failure to grammar school success, to university, to teaching, to politics, to
television fame and, of course, considerable wealth.

As a young Labour MP in the Seventies he was unusually outspoken, unusually
ambitious and most unusually handsome. Too handsome to be a politician, some
said, as if his looks were something he had chosen for himself. (Jonathan
Aitken, David Owen and Michael Portillo apart, who ever saw a very handsome
British politician?

And look what happened to them). Three decades on, we are used to his good looks
but still mesmerised by his tan. That comes partly from having a house in Spain,
though that alone cannot quite explain it.

For years his loud, lively and often sensational television programme pepped up
weekday morning for millions of viewers, but that is as nothings compared to
what he has done in the past fortnight. His arrival on the scene as UK
Independence Party MEP candidate for the East Midlands has been nothing less
than explosive, turning a sleepy contest with fudged party messages to a bored
electorate into something rather like a roller-coaster ride.

NO MAJOR television star had ever taken a serious hand in British politics.
Suddenly, Kilroy was here, pumping out the message for a party which had been a
negligible collection of never-was and neverwill-be candidates. The Ukip message
is simple, "Get Britain out of Europe, " and according to Kilroy it is a message
millions want to hear. In him, it has found a voice.

As a young politician he thrived on getting out on the street and talking to
people. But now, as a television star with almost 20 years' experience of
drawing out and controlling an audience, of flirting with old ladies and lending
a concerned ear to confessions and saying plainly and loudly what he thought,
Kilroy has the sort of expertise that not even a Prime Minister can better. And,
unlike a Prime Minister, he has licence to thump out a clear, crisp, simple
message.

In short, he has sent a shudder of alarm through the Tory Party and a cold chill
through the Lib Dems. The polls are suggesting a Kilroypowered Ukip will take
votes from the Tories and knock the Lib Dems into fourth place.

As every TV viewer, Sunday Express reader and BBC executive knows, Kilroy says
what he thinks. His words may not be to everyone's taste but they never come
minced. He wants out of Europe. "Look at our adverts in yesterday's newspapers,
" he says. "The cost of being in Europe is GBP 30billion. The Labour Party
should be ashamed. I look at a town like Corby and the trouble it's in and
wonder how my former colleagues can sleep at night. People feel disempowered and
disenfranchised. The old parties are irrelevant and people know that."

He is quick to point out that Ukip's election battle is an uphill one, as is his
own in the East Midlands where he needs a 14 per cent swing and with big party
machines against him. Yet in the next breath he says this election could be "a
political earthquake". He says he'll be pushed to win, and adds, only
semi-ironically, "cometh the hour, cometh the man". He is far too savvy and
professional to be silly but clearly he is a little high on the thrill of
battle. "I have always been a political animal, " he says.

Can Ukip really pull off something extraordinary?

Well, he obviously thinks it's a psychological moment. Sure, this election is
his reemergence into a spotlight after being cruelly slung into the darkness by
the BBC, but timing is of the essence.

"Well, there is a tide in the affairs of men, " he says, reaching for a bit of
Shakespeare, as you do. "On such a full sea as we are now. . ." If he wins a
seat in the European Parliament, he will not sit "rotting away in Strasbourg".

He will be making a noise. This time next week, he may be a footnote of a
footnote in political history, a TV star whose political campaign died the death
in the East Midlands, or he may have embarked on a new career.

Unlike most minor party politicians, Kilroy is a professional. Not a
professional grocer, posh bloke and millionaire, like Jimmy Goldsmith of the
Referendum Party, but a professional politician and communicator. "He was, "
says a former senior figure in his TV production company, "the most professional
chat show performer. We would send the research notes to his house for when he
woke at 4.30am. When he arrived for the preprogramme meeting at 6.30am, he had
assimilated everything."

"He was amazing, " says a woman who worked for him as a researcher. "We would
record three programmes a day but he would remember the names of everyone in the
front row. He had a tremendous rapport."

"He wasn't the nicest person, " says the senior executive, "he shouted at
secretaries."

"He was rough on the staff, " said the researcher. "He assumed it was easy to
get people to go on the programme. He never seemed to understand how difficult
it was."

Ah, yes. But did he get a result? Did they come on?

"Oh, yes, " she said.

Kilroy says he has come into the Euro elections to say things that he thinks
need to be said. They are the same things he has been saying about Europe for 30
years. But if he didn't think he was going to get a result, you can be sure he
wouldn't be running.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              203 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 9, 2004

OFF THE LEASH; OFF THE LEASH

BYLINE: Dorothy-Grace Elder

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 50 words


The United Kingdom Independence Party lists a "horse whisperer" among their
Scottish candidates. I suppose that's one up on the political abilities of lead
supporter Joan "I Don't Vote" Collins. The late Screaming Lord Sutch and his
Monster Raving Loony Party are beginning to sound sensible.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              204 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 9, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Would-be protest voters need to get a grip on reality: The
priority should be to block the anti-democratic right, not punish Blair

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1160 words


Life on the left can be a miserable penance. Its votaries are condemned to
perpetual disappointment and despair, born to be betrayed. The blindingly
obvious way to go always seems to be the path less trod by leaders who drag
their heels on the road to Jersualem. My emails of the last week contain a
wallow of wails. Can't vote, won't vote, will never vote Blair again.

I was born under Clement Attlee's post-war government and cradled by the new
NHS, and I shall die with Beveridge's pension in my pocket. But otherwise, the
last half-century has been a bad time to belong to the left in Britain. From
1951, when ungrateful voters threw Attlee out, until 1997, Labour had just 11
short years in power, all of them dogged by economic trouble, mostly not of its
own making.

The sheer weight of 35 years of Tory rule has made the political weather: the
storm damage is deep in the national psyche. Most of my life, a narrow,
mean-spirited conservatism has branded Britain. How easy it is to forget how
different the last seven years have been - a triumphant Labour economy
delivering massive social spending.

Tony Blair's head sits on the coconut shy tomorrow. Respect calls it "the
referendum on Tony Blair". Many imagine they can knock his block off with no
risk of dislodging Labour from power. Here, they think, is a risk-free chance
for voters to express their rage. Easy - just withdraw Labour votes and get a
kwik-fit regime change at the top.

There are plenty of reasons to pelt Blair, as expounded forcefully in my emails.
Liar, hypocrite, warmonger, neo-con - the list of his defects is long. The
indictment reads: the war, the war, the war. He isolated Britain alone with Bush
and took us to the heart of Texas instead of Europe. He kowtows to big business,
letting boardroom greed rip. His flexible labour market is an army of low-paid,
contracted-out workers. He undermines the public ethos and over-praises private
alternatives. His failure to face down the bully press has entrenched the might
of Murdoch and the Mail. Never confronting Thatcher's what's-in-it-for-me
individualism, he fails to breathe a spirit of mutual endeavour into the body
politic.

All that is largely true, and I, too, often criticise him and his government for
these failures. So why not join the Dumpblair campaign? Because the above
indictment is only a wish-list of what might have been, a half-truth that leaves
out both Labour's successes and the scale of its triumph in breaking with the
last century's miserable political history. It leaves out the good done, the
million fewer poor children, the Sure Starts and the remarkable school and
hospital results. By nature, progressives are never satisfied. But the downside
is unreasonable denigration of what has been done.

Right now, reason cuts no mustard with those in a red mist of revenge. But those
about to throw away their vote in protest should get a grip on themselves. Out
there, clouds of conservatism and far worse are gathering. Ukip and the BNP may
save Labour utter humiliation by preventing much victory for Michael Howard
either, but that's dangerous. The polls are all over the place since so much
depends on turnout, but massive abstention by Labour voters could deliver
results that will not be easily dismissed as a mid-term hiccup. One poll puts
Ukip two points behind Labour, predicting a xenophobic, anti-European result
with the combined rightwing vote overwhelming Labour and Lib Dems together.

The symbolic power of that would have an unpredictable trajectory of its own,
unleashing forces that are hard to bottle up again. It might finish off any hope
of ever winning a referendum on the European constitution: as the rest of the EU
moves on this would mark the start of Britain's road to the margins and
withdrawal.

Do not assume that Blair's head can be neatly chopped, replaced overnight by
Brown's to let Labour sail ahead to certain victory in the general election.
Perhaps, if Labour's result is near zero, just possibly Blair might have to go
in an atmosphere of crisis and panic. Revenge is sweet, but it doesn't last
long, and that decapitation would have uncertain effect. If Labour suffers a
terrible blow, whether Blair stays or goes, it will be in trouble.

Take a close look at Ukip's website. Observe too the growing anti-political
rhetoric in the air. Candidates are boasting of being "non-political",
independent and non-party. That appeal to "common sense" and "neither right nor
left" is an anti-democratic sentiment. Consider Ukip's "five freedoms": 1)
freedom from the European Union; 2) freedom from crime; 3) freedom from
overcrowding; 4) freedom from bureaucratic politicians; 5) freedom from
political correctness. That's a nasty little quintet of demagoguery.

Cynicism about politics leads to refusal to vote: the next step is voting for
anti-politics which rapidly becomes anti-democracy. Parties are integral to
democracy, requiring compromise and coalition, consensus and consent. It's
always a frustrating, messy business. But the anti-politics brigade pursues
simple, absolute goals inviting voters to despise the building of coalition and
consent. Democracy can be too easily taken for granted.

This outbreak is not surprising. Our stagnant first-past-the-post electoral
system has no escape valves for pent-up frustration. The powerless voter is
offered ready-made coalitions as the only parties capable of winning power. So
neither a pro-EU Tory or an old Labour socialist has any way to identify their
vote. It's monstrously unjust, and at every election now voters seek in vain to
find tactical ways to express themselves. Better by far to let people choose
from a wide range of parties which can then form coalitions according to their
electoral strength, so everyone can express their view and every vote counts.

Those who are outraged by Iraq and Blair should now devote themselves to
campaigning for a fair voting system so this never happens again.* They have
every reason to be indignant at the choices on offer - but for now, that's all
there is. This is yet another election for nose-holding and voting for whichever
party best keeps out the right in your patch - Labour or Lib Dem. Despite Iraq,
I shall not need a nose-peg to vote Labour.

Even in London, Ken is by no means secure, fearing a big Labour stay-away. At
least Londoners get a better voting system with second preferences, but his
campaign warns voters to remember second choices are only counted once your
candidate has been struck out. (So those, say, who put Simon Hughes first must
throw their second preferences to Ken, not waste them uncounted on others who
will already have been eliminated by then.)

This election does not offer a risk-free hit at Blair. Those intent on doing him
damage, whatever the cost, may relish the revenge but would repent at leisure.

*www.makevotescount.org.uk

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 9, 2004

Leading article: June 10 elections An overshadowed vote:

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 885 words


For months if not years, June 10 2004 has been ringed in every political diary.
The range of posts up for election tomorrow - every UK seat in the European
parliament, a large swathe of English local council seats, including nearly 100%
of those in the redrawn metropolitan districts, plus the mayoralty of London -
make this the most important date in the electoral calendar between the last
general election and the next. But tomorrow has become doubly significant
because of the intense circumstances in which polling takes place this year. It
has been overshadowed by the most divisive international action taken by any
British government since Suez. It comes at a time of fiercely renewed argument
about Britain's future in the enlarged European Union. It occurs at the end of a
year in which populist anxieties about asylum seekers and migrants of all kinds
have dominated debate. And it comes just when when the material impact of a
major programme of public spending on health and education can begin to be
assessed. It will be a resonant verdict. With a general election likely in less
than 12 months, this week's results could transform the ecology of British
politics.

The first thing to say about tomorrow is that it is important to vote. The
second is that far too few people will do so. Turnout in the last European
elections five years ago was terrible, a mere 23.1%. This week, pessimistic
observers fear it may be even worse. It is hard to understand why, and we hope
they are wrong. At least back in 1999, Labour was only two years into its long
honeymoon. Today, the country is more conflicted and feelings on all sides are
stronger. This time, moreover, the government has also made strenuous (if
possibly self-serving) efforts to make voting easier through an extensive
experiment in postal voting. Today more than ever, no one should make apologies
for abstention.

A number of the so-called minor parties look likely to poll more strongly than
normal this week, which would again be a repeat of 1999. Beware of regarding
this as a necessarily desirable development, not least because two of those most
likely to benefit are the deluded and obsessive UK Independence party and the
frankly xenophobic BNP. There may sometimes be good reasons for forsaking the
major parties. But there are also bad ones. Local government and the European
parliament are certainly not beyond criticism, but we are better off with them
than without them. It matters who runs our town and county halls. It matters who
speaks for Britain in Europe. It is not right to treat such polls capriciously,
or to regard them as worth participating in only to make a protest against the
main parties. So don't waste your vote.

That is partly why it is a mistake to treat tomorrow's polls as a referendum on
something they are not. They are not a referendum on the Iraq war, or on Tony
Blair, or on Britain's membership of the European Union, or on the draft EU
constitution, or on asylum seekers, or on multiracial Britain, or on any of the
other single issues that various parties have promoted in the generally dismally
poor campaign of the past few weeks. Saying they are so does not make them so.
These remain elections to decide who speaks for Britain in Europe and for local
communities in running their own affairs.

The central question tomorrow is therefore whether Labour deserves continued
support. Our qualified answer is that it does. Were it not for the Iraq war, it
would be hard to argue against a vote for Labour in both Europe and local
government. Nothing in the real world is ever beyond criticism, and that
certainly applies to the Labour party, but Labour's essential commitment to
Europe - and this is, after all, partly a European election - is overwhelmingly
in this country's and this continent's interests, especially in the face of the
panicky stampede among the parties of the right to capture the
pull-up-the-drawbridge vote. Labour's record at local government level is more
mixed. There may be places, especially where the Conservatives are currently in
power, as well as in some unreformed Labour tribal heartlands, where a vote for
the Liberal Democrats makes more effective sense. This is not the case in
London, however, where Labour's Ken Livingstone deserves re-election on the
basis not merely of the congestion charge but also of many other aspects of his
moderately effective first term.

Many Labour supporters find it hard to vote Labour this time because of Iraq. In
such cases they should look first at the only UK-wide party which opposed the
war, is pro-Europe and pro-local government, and which in most contests has a
consistently serious chance - the Liberal Democrats. Those who believe a vote
should normally be cast for those who will represent them best across the range
of issues should continue to remember this big fact: Labour is delivering what
the poor and the powerless most need - in terms not just of cash support to
individuals and families, but also of investment in public goods, such as the
health service, and much else besides. No one else will deliver them as
effectively; certainly not the rightwing parties which, however much one may
wish it otherwise, stand to gain most from Labour's troubles and tomorrow's
contests.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 9, 2004

Sketch: Let there be light but not in Scotland

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 612 words


It is an insufficiently known fact that when party politicians think no one is
looking they are often nice to one another in constructive pursuit of the public
good.

Yesterday was such a day. Outside the sun shone brightly, but most MPs were away
canvassing a reluctant electorate. At least, that is what they will tell the
whips to explain their suntans.

Health question time passed off calmly enough. Even Graham Allen, the backbench
Savonarola, praised improvements in the NHS before demanding ministerial
attendance at the Nottingham North health conference, where poor sex education
will be high on the agenda.

There followed an even more unusual incident. George Foulkes, the Labour
loyalist, rose to apologise to his fellow Scot, Tam Dalyell, the veteran Labour
disloyalist. During exchanges on Iraq on Monday he had referred to Mr Dalyell as
a Jonah.

"It should, of course, have been a Jeremiah. I am sure you realised straight
away, Mr Speaker, as did some of my colleagues," said Mr Foulkes. The creep.

Mr Speaker Martin is not a former Rolls Royce engineering shop steward for
nothing. When young Foulkes was poncing around Edinburgh student politics, young
Martin was metal bashing in Glasgow. Jonah, Jeremiah, Tam, they are all the same
to him: middle class New Labour types.

"The honourable gentleman should brush up his Old Testament," he growled. In the
circumstances this was generous. Old Etonian Mr Dalyell must have been putting
up the Speaker's blood pressure for years, so he might have ruled that Tam was
both a Jeremiah and a Jonah: a prophet of doom prone to being recycled inside
whales, giant turtles in Tam's case.

All this passed off amiably enough. MPs chuckled indulgently. Even Mr Dalyell
laughed. But then Labour's Nigel Beard rose to dizzy heights of constructive
policy debate, confident that his secret hope will be confined to the pages of
Hansard.

Under the 10-minute rule which allows MPs to float ideas both daft and wise, he
introduced the lighter evenings bill. Yes, it was that old favourite, the plan
to move British Summer Time - winter time too - into line with our EU
neighbours. It has been around since sundials first took over from egg timers.

Mr Beard waxed eloquent about the beneficial impact the change would have. It
would increase our trading opportunities among 16 EU neighbours with whom we
shuffle £137bn a year. It might well boost the tourism industry by £3bn a year
as foreigners flock to enjoy our longer evenings.

Even better, Age Concern backs Mr Beard's cunning plan because that extra hour
of daylight would allow old people to venture out after tea without fear of
being mugged, mooned at or subjected to an anti-social behaviour order by
overzealous New Labour community wardens.

We had not even got to energy savings (up to 1%), let alone to the 450 road
deaths and serious injuries that more daylight saving would avert. Those MPs not
already exhausted sloped off to don their factor 15 canvassing cream and face
the excessive quantities of existing daylight in the streets outside.

There is, of course, a well-known drawback to Mr Beard's scheme. Britain is a
tall country. It is no one's fault, not even Ukip's. But the Beard bill would
mean that the December sun would not rise on Edinburgh, let alone on Orkney,
until 9.45am. Mr Beard is a Kent MP.

All the same one could not help wondering how many of the gains to be made at
night would be lost at dawn. All those flashers and burglars up early, all those
exquisite 5am summer sunrises, especially treasured by Age Concern's more
incontinent customers, lost for ever. Leave well alone, Nigel.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              207 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

BLAIR PLANS SHOW OF STRENGTH TO SQUASH LEADERSHIP RUMOURS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND COLIN BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 469 words


TONY BLAIR will seek to shore up his position as Prime Minister after Thursday's
local and European elections by implementing a fightback plan in which he will
outline new policies on health, education, crime and transport.

Mr Blair has decided to address Labour MPs at their weekly meeting next Monday
in an attempt to win an informal vote of confidence from them and squash any new
outbreak of speculation that he might stand down before the next general
election. Although Labour is expected to suffer a backlash over the Iraq war on
Thursday, Mr Blair's aides are confident he will survive the inevitable
criticism from inside his party that would follow.

John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, was orginally due to speak at Monday's
meeting but Mr Blair will now issue a "business as usual" message by updating
his MPs on the Government's "forward plans". These include five-year programmes
for the Home Office and the departments of Education, Health and Transport which
will form key planks in the Labour manifesto for the general election expected
next May.

Mr Blair, who is determined not to "hide away" after poor results on Thursday,
is due to hold his monthly press conference next Tuesday. Next week is bound to
be dominated by Europe because a crucial EU summit takes place in Brussels on
17-18 June to agree the proposed new EU constitution.

In the following week, the Prime Minister will try to switch the political
spotlight away from Europe and Iraq by trailing some of the ideas in the
five-year plans and making a major speech on public services.

Downing Street has abandoned the idea of trying to "move on" from Iraq,
recognising that it cannot possibly control events on the ground. It is braced
for further setbacks as al-Qa'ida tries to disrupt the path to Iraqi elections
due early next year but hopes that British politics will be dominated by
domestic issues.

Another important element in the fightback plan will be the government- wide
spending review to be unveiled by Gordon Brown next month.

Yesterday Mr Blair reiterated his intention to lead Labour into the next
election, although he stopped short of saying that he would serve a full third
time. He told BBC Radio Four's Today programme: "There is a lot more work we
have got to do as a government."

He played down the advance by the United Kingdom Independence Party, which
supports withdrawal from the EU. "Whatever happens in these European elections,
and the turnout is never the same as a general election, when you really face
people with that choice, then I think they understand that it is not very
sensible."

UKIP's threat to the Tories was illustrated when Tories in Stroud issued a
leaflet seeking support in the local election "whichever way you vote in the
European election."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              208 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 718 words


The Duchess of York settles her bills - one year late

VNot since the Daily Mirror reporter Ryan Parry got a job at Buckingham Palace
has a journalist assisted the Royals with their housekeeping. But this week,
Pandora did just that, giving the Duchess of York a helping hand with her
domestic accounts.

A couple of days ago, I was contacted by Nina Rayit, who runs a dry-cleaning
shop called Invisible Menders of Knightsbridge. She had - for the past 12 months
- been owed pounds 360 by Fergie's office.

Rayit was asked to visit the Duchess at the Berkeley Hotel in January, 2003 in
order to make alterations to her holiday wardrobe.

"She was going on a WeightWatchers tour of Canada, and was very slim; all of her
clothes needed taking in," Rayit recalled. "I did the work, but have not
received payment. It's strange, because I had previously worked for her,
happily, for a great many years."

When Pandora contacted the Duchess of York's office, I was originally told that
they had no knowledge of the debt. However, a couple of hours later, they owned
up to some kind of oversight.

The next morning, a motorbike arrived at Rayit's shop, bearing pounds 360 in
cash, a bunch of flowers, and no less than two handwritten letters of apology
from Fergie.

"It was a completely private matter and has now been resolved," said a royal
source yesterday.

Dee-lighted, Simon

VMY TELEPHONE stands to attention. It is Simon Dee (left): chat show host,
1960s' icon, and new recruit to the UK Independence Party.

Dee, 68, is upset at being described as "decrepit" by this column. He says
nothing could be further from the truth: he still plays football and tennis, and
swims with his nine-year-old son every week.

"There are people who are not old enough to remember the BBC show Dee Time," he
says. "It took a viewing audience of around two million to 15 million and
maintained this number of viewers for three years."

Mr Dee may soon return to our screens, so perhaps the word "decrepit" was
unfair. "Vintage" would have been more appropriate.

Rottweiler returns

VTHE MAIL on Sunday's Kensington office is filled with furrowed brows at the
news that Martin Clarke has been offered the post of executive editor there.

Clarke, the editor of Ireland on Sunday, is a chip off Paul Dacre's block and is
said to be something of a bruiser.

"Anyone who cocked anything up for Martin would receive a proper bollocking,
either in front of the rest of the office, or by way of a late-night phone call
home," says a former employee.

"We used to call him either Cyclops - because he's tall and his eyes are very
close together - or the Rottweiler, on account of his uncompromising approach to
man-management."

VIlie Nastase is upset that, after all these years, the All England Club has not
offered him honorary membership.

The Romanian - nicknamed "Nasty" in his heyday - reckons he's owed a favour by
Wimbledon, for turning up during the players strike of 1973, a year after he was
the losing finalist, and making their event worth watching.

"It's almost like the more I ask, the further down their list I go," he tells
me. "I'm getting to the stage now when I'm considering standing behind one of
the old guys from the club on some steps and going Boo!' really loudly. Or
giving them a shove."

A Wimbledon spokesman is unimpressed by such threats: "It's a matter for the
committee to decide," he says, tactfully.

pandora@independent.co.uk

Grade's unusual D-Day landing

VMICHAEL GRADE and his wife Francesca (left) travelled to Normandy in a Royal
Navy landing craft, to witness Sunday's D-Day celebrations.

Unfortunately, their voyage was thrown off schedule, when Mrs Grade announced -
some six miles off the coast of Portsmouth - that she needed to powder her nose.

"Our landing craft didn't have a serviceable loo, so a kindly lieutenant colonel
agreed to radio ahead to a much larger Navy landing craft which did," reports a
fellow passenger.

"We then docked alongside and watched whilst Mrs Grade clambered aboard and was
ushered off to the ladies."

A BBC spokesman yesterday confirmed that its chairman and his wife had been on
the landing craft, but was reluctant to respond to Pandora's inquiries about
their toilet habits.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              209 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

ELECTIONS: PARTIES IGNORE LOCAL ISSUES IN COUNCIL POLLS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 837 words


THE MAXIM that "all politics is local" seems to have been forgotten in the
campaign for Thursday's local authority elections, which the main political
parties have fought largely on national issues in a dry run for the next general
election.

The polls in 144 of the 387 councils in England and all 22 authorities in Wales
have inevitably been merged into a single campaign with the European Parliament
elections which take place throughout the United Kingdom on "Super Thursday."

Labour has campaigned heavily on the threat of "Tory cuts", saying that local
services would be cut if the Tories win power locally or nationally. On Monday,
for example, Labour claimed that the Tories' plans would mean 24,348 fewer
teachers and 22,821 fewer classroom assistants, 70,000 fewer doctors and 22,000
fewer police. The figures were based on the Tories' pledge to reduce the share
of national wealth devoted to public spending from 42 per cent to 40 per cent,
which would cut spending by pounds 18bn.

But Labour's claim was misleading since the Tories have promised to match
Labour's spending on hospitals and schools and to provide an extra 40,000 police
officers while squeezing spending in other areas. Labour ministers admitted
their figures were "illustrative". The Tories accused them of telling lies.

Labour's private polling suggests the voters remain worried about "Tory cuts"
despite the Opposition's attempts to win people's trust on public services.
Michael Howard, the Tory leader, promised on Sunday that the Tories would soon
set out the most detailed policy programme by an opposition in recent times -
but not until after Thursday's elections.

The Tories have still to outline the detail of their proposed "passports" for
pupils and patients and their alternative to the council tax and did not want
the elections dominated by what they would do, preferring to campaign on the
umbrella theme that people feel "let down by Labour", a message that comes
through strongly in the Tories' own polling.

Labour has used the campaign to attack Mr Howard personally. He has loomed large
in the party's four election broadcasts - unlike Tony Blair, who has not
appeared at all. One Labour broadcast was devoted entirely to Mr Howard's career
against a background of the song "My Way."

The one genuinely local issue that has played during the campaign is the council
tax. Mr Howard has trumpeted the Tories' low-tax credentials by pointing out
that "Conservative councils cost people less - pounds 53 less every year on
average for a Band D bill." He has attacked a 60 per cent rise in council tax
bills since 1997.

Labour replied by claiming that the Tories would cut town-hall funding by pounds
2.4bn, the equivalent to a 10 per cent rise in council-tax bills, saying that it
had increased grants to local authorities by 30 per cent since 1997. The 5.9 per
cent average increase in council tax bills in April was the lowest for more than
a decade.

Labour argued that the Tories' figures were misleading because some areas have
few Band D homes. It said the average council tax in Tory-run councils, at
pounds 1,072, was higher than in Labour ones (pounds 870). It cited figures
showing that Labour-run authorities raised their bills by an average of 4.7 per
cent this year, compared with 5.4 per cent for the Tories and 6 per cent for the
Liberal Democrats. While all the main parties claimed to be in favour of
devolving "power to the people" and allowing councils more freedom, Labour and
the Tories were short on specifics.

The Liberal Democrats have a better track record on handing down power and would
scrap the council tax, replacing it with a local income tax which they claim
would be fairer. Although the idea has been attacked by the big two parties, the
Liberal Democrats claim it is playing well on the doorsteps.

Public disenchantment with Labour and the Tories may help the smaller parties do
well in this week's local elections. The Green Party, like the Liberal
Democrats, may attract Labour supporters who opposed the Iraq war. It is
fielding 760 candidates and is looking for a 20 per cent rise in its number of
councillors, which increased from 41 to 53 last year.

A Green Party spokesman said: "We expect to benefit from the anti-war vote -
whereas the Liberal Democrats ended up supporting the Government, the Green
Party consistently opposed the war."

Although the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) may do well in the Euro
elections, it is seen as a single-issue party and is unlikely to repeat its
showing in the town hall polls. One in five people may vote for different
parties in the local and European elections, with many natural Tories backing
UKIP in the Euro poll.

Labour expects a big differential between the two elections. While Labour hopes
that UKIP's intervention will allow Labour to match the Tories in the Euro poll,
it is resigned to falling several points short of the Tories' share of the vote
in the council elections.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              210 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

ELECTIONS: MAYORAL CANDIDATES TRY TO WIN LONDON'S CRUCIAL BLACK VOTE

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Jesse Jackson: Endorsed Mr
Livingstone's candidacy

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 587 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE, Steve Norris and Simon Hughes made a last-minute attempt to win
over London's black vote last night as the race for London mayor reached its
final furlong.

Black leaders warned the ethnic minority vote could decide the final outcome of
the mayoral race, as all three candidates reasserted their credentials on racial
issues at a hustings attended by hundreds of black Londoners.

Around 25 per cent of London's electorate is from the ethnic minorities and
yesterday black leaders said it was "political suicide" to ignore them.

Simon Woolley of Operation Black Vote said the black vote could not only decide
the outcome of the mayoral race but quash the re-emergence of the far right in
the capital. "The black vote holds the balance of power in London," he said.
"This is an opportunity to deal a resounding blow to the BNP."

Mr Livingstone outflanked his rivals yesterday by revealing the endorsement of
Jesse Jackson, the charismatic black civil rights leader. Mr Hughes and Mr
Norris reasserted their long standing support for blacks and Asians in London
while Darren Johnson, the Green candidate, stressed his long- held commitment to
an equality agenda.

As the mayoral campaign reached its final 24 hours, the polls showed Mr
Livingstone retaining his comfortable lead. But in the Labour camp there were
concerns that traditional party supporters would stay away from the polls, in
protest at Tony Blair's leadership and the Iraq war.

Although Mr Livingstone - like Mr Norris, Mr Hughes and Mr Johnson - has been an
outspoken critic of the war, canvass returns suggested Labour's standing in the
capital may be affected by the situation in Iraq.

A low turnout would be most damaging to Labour's standing in the London
Assembly. The party could lose at least one of its nine seats and Mr Livingstone
could find himself without enough Labour support to push through his budget.

But last night the Mayor's campaign team was confident the anti-Blair vote would
not rebound on Mr Livingstone. "Iraq is not the most significant issue in
London," said a spokesman.

Mr Norris branded the UK Independence Party as "xenophobic and negative" as he
urged voters of all political complexions to vote for him to deal a blow to Mr
Blair. He said Mr Livingstone's standing in the capital was not "enough to
protect him" from the anger towards Mr Blair and the Labour government.

He predicted that Labour was facing a "wipe out" in the London Assembly as
voters used the election as a referendum on Mr Blair's leadership as well as Mr
Livingstone's record.

Yesterday the Liberal Democrats were out campaigning for Mr Hughes, who is
currently in third behind the Tories. To have a chance of beating the incumbent
mayor, Mr Hughes will have to overtake Mr Norris and get into second place. From
second he believes he will have enough Tory and Green second preferences to
catapult him past the Mayor into the winning position.

The Greens are on target to boost their share of the vote in London. They are
set to benefit from the anti-Blair vote in the capital, like the Liberal
Democrats. But the Greens, who have three members on the London Assembly
including the deputy mayor, will have to battle it out with UKIP for extra
seats.

Yesterday they were optimistic they would increase their standing. "We are
aiming for five assembly members and are expecting Labour to lose seats," said a
spokesman. "Even if UKIP does get a seat we think we can make gains from
Labour."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              211 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

ELECTIONS: BLAIR WILL OUTLINE NEW POLICIES IN LATEST EFFORT TO SQUASH LEADERSHIP
RUMOURS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND COLIN BROWN

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 380 words


TONY BLAIR will seek to shore up his position as Prime Minister after Thursday's
local and European elections by implementing a fightback plan in which he will
outline new policies on health, education, crime and transport.

Mr Blair will address Labour MPs on Monday in an attempt to win an informal vote
of confidence and squash any new speculation that he might stand down before the
next general election. Although Labour is expected to suffer a backlash over the
Iraq war on Thursday, Mr Blair's aides are confident he will survive the
criticism from inside his party that would follow.

John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, was originally due to speak at
Monday's meeting but Mr Blair will now issue a "business as usual" message by
updating his MPs on the Government's "forward plans". These include five-year
programmes for the Home Office and the departments of Education, Health and
Transport which will form key planks in the Labour manifesto for the general
election expected next May.

Mr Blair, who is determined not to "hide away" after poor results on Thursday,
is due to hold his monthly press conference next Tuesday. Next week is bound to
be dominated by Europe because a crucial EU summit takes place in Brussels on
17-18 June to agree the proposed new EU constitution.

In the following week, the Prime Minister will try to switch the political
spotlight away from Europe and Iraq and towards domestic issues. Another key
element in the fightback plan will be the Government-wide spending review to be
unveiled by Gordon Brown next month.

Yesterday Mr Blair reiterated his intention to lead Labour into the next
election, although he stopped short of saying that he would serve a full third
term.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, he played down the advance by the UK
Independence Party, which supports withdrawal from the EU. "Whatever happens in
these European elections, and the turnout is never the same as a general
election, when you really face people with that choice, then I think they
understand that it is not very sensible."

UKIP's threat to the Conservatives was illustrated when Tories in Stroud issued
a leaflet seeking support in the local election "whichever way you vote in the
European election".

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              212 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

ELECTIONS: BLACK VOTE COULD DECIDE WHO WILL BE MAYOR OF LONDON

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Jesse Jackson: Endorsed Mr
Livingstone's candidacy

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 585 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE, Steve Norris and Simon Hughes last night made a last-minute bid
to win over London's black vote as the race for London mayor reached its final
furlong.

Black leaders warned the ethnic minority vote could decide the final outcome of
the mayoral race, as all three candidates reasserted their credentials on racial
issues at a hustings attended by hundreds of black Londoners.

Around 25 per cent of London's electorate is from the ethnic minorities and
yesterday black leaders said it was "political suicide" to ignore them.

Simon Woolley of Operation Black Vote said the black vote could not only decide
the outcome of the mayoral race but quash the re-emergence of the far right in
the capital.

"The black vote holds the balance of power in London," he said. "This is an
opportunity to deal a resounding blow to the BNP at the dispatch box."

Mr Livingstone outflanked his rivals yesterday by revealing the endorsement of
Jesse Jackson, the charismatic black civil rights leader. Mr Hughes and Mr
Norris reasserted their long standing support for black and Asians in London
while Darren Johnson, the Green candidate, stressed his long- held commitment to
an equality agenda.

As the mayoral campaign reached its final 24 hours, the polls showed Mr
Livingstone retaining his comfortable lead. But in the Labour camp there were
concerns that traditional party supporters would stay away from the polls, in
protest at Tony Blair's leadership and the Iraq war.

Although Mr Livingstone - like Mr Norris, Mr Hughes and Mr Johnson - has been an
outspoken critic of the war, canvass returns suggested Labour's standing in the
capital may be affected by the situation in Iraq.

A low turnout would be most damaging to Labour's standing in the London
Assembly. The party could lose at least one of its nine seats and Mr Livingstone
could find himself without enough Labour support to push through his budget.

But last night the Mayor's campaign team was confident the anti-Blair vote would
not rebound on Ken Livingstone. They said they had encountered more hostility
towards the congestion charge on the doorstep. "Iraq is not the most significant
issue in London," said a spokesman yesterday. "The polls and canvass returns are
showing we are well in front."

Yesterday the Liberal Democrats were out campaigning for Simon Hughes, who is
currently in third behind the Tories. To have a chance of beating the encumbent
mayor, Mr Hughes will have to overtake Mr Norris and get into second place. From
second he believes he will have enough Tory and Green second preferences to
catapult him past the Mayor into the winning position.

But the Liberal Democrats were putting an optimistic gloss on their position
while admitting privately that beating the Mayor would be a tough task.

"The canvas data we have been getting is exceedingly positive," said one aide.
"If we come second it's going to be bloody close."

The Greens are on target to boost their share of the vote in London. They are
set to benefit from the anti-Blair vote in the capital, like the Liberal
Democrats. But the Greens, who have three members on the London Assembly
including the deputy mayor, will have to battle it out with UKIP for extra
seats.

Yesterday they were optimistic they would increase their standing. "We are
aiming for five assembly members and are expecting Labour to lose seats," said a
spokesman. "Even if UKIP does get a seat we think we can make gains from
Labour."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              213 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

ELECTIONS: NORRIS ATTACKS UKIP AND PREDICTS A WIPE-OUT' FOR LABOUR IN THE
CAPITAL

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 379 words


STEVE NORRIS yesterday branded the United Kingdom Independence Party as
"xenophobic and negative" as he urged voters of all political complexions to
vote for him to deal a blow to Tony Blair.

The Tory candidate for mayor of London said Ken Livingstone's standing in the
capital was not "enough to protect him" from the anger towards Tony Blair and
the Labour government.

He predicted that Labour was facing a "wipe out" in the London Assembly as
voters used the election as a referendum on Blair's leadership as well as Ken
Livingstone's record.

"What is playing out on the doorstep is a very strong sense of get them out'.
It's probably in the order of first Labour and then Livingstone. Livingstone is
much less popular than journalists seem to think," he said. "There are whole
swathes of London where Livingstone is a dirty word."

In an interview with The Independent, Mr Norris said the overwhelming message of
the campaign was "the negativity about Labour and Livingstone".

"The Livingstone brand is probably a better brand than Labour. But it isn't
powerful enough to protect him," he said.

Mr Norris denied he was deliberately distancing himself from Michael Howard but
he said he would not take orders from the Tory leader if elected.

"This is not in any way to be disloyal to my party's leadership but if you want
to elect Michael Howard elect Michael Howard but if you want someone who will do
the job for London then I am your man," he said. "I ... want to be a Mayor for
every Londoner but I am not here prosecuting a particular political agenda and
never was."

He denied that the surge of support for UKIP would rob him of votes.

"UKIP won't be affecting my vote at all because people recognise this is about
electing an independent-minded individual who doesn't take his line from a
political party," he said.

Yesterday Mr Norris's campaign was dealt a blow when relatives of the Potters
Bar rail crash urged Londoners not to vote for him because he is the chairman of
Jarvis, the engineering firm linked to the tragedy. Jarvis has admitted
liability for compensation but not for the crash.

"I understand how they feel," he said. "It was an awful tragedy and I understand
completely why they say what they say."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              214 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

VOTERS ARE DISILLUSIONED WITH THE MAIN PARTIES

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 859 words


On the basis of the poster voter (as opposed to the postal vote), the United
Kingdom Independence Party will sweep the board on all roads leading out of
London, through Surrey and West Sussex, all the way down to the south coast
resorts of Bognor Regis, Littlehampton and Worthing.

Driving down to my parents' Sussex home on Sunday, the normal displays of Tory
posters, which in the past usually vied with those of the Liberal Democrats,
were this time curiously absent. Huge yellow and purple UKIP posters jump out at
motorists from every strategic vantage point, proving that it is in the safe
Tory heartlands where this new right-wing impostor appears to expect to make its
greatest advance. Neither was there a single Labour poster in sight.

Of course, posters do not have votes, and one farmer's roadside fields,
stretching for several miles and littered with UKIP signs, does not alter the
fact that the poster erector only has one vote. It is clear, however, that the
safer the Tory majority in parliamentary constituencies at the 2001 general
election, the greater is the pool of potential UKIP votes.

But although, if the polls are correct, it is Michael Howard rather than Tony
Blair who will be in the electoral dog-house when the ballots are counted next
weekend, it would be wrong to suggest that, with one UKIP bound, the Prime
Minister can breeze his way entirely safely to a third term victory. Much
depends, of course, on the way in which the Tory party responds to the results.
Their previous tendency to run around attacking each other, blame strategies,
call for reshuffles and resort to their favourite pastime of backbiting, can
certainly make an awkward situation worse.

Michael Portillo was right, however, to identify issuing the anti-UKIP briefing
document as the Tories' single tactical error. This was compounded by Mr Howard
dignifying UKIP with a speech that, in the words of Mr Portillo, "communicated
nothing to the electorate except the smell of fear". Mr Howard should take a
hard look at the undue influence that the co-chairman, Liam Fox, has had in this
misguided strategy. This certainly turned out to be the catalyst for allowing
the UKIP campaign to gain momentum in the final week. And, in turn, it has let
the aggressive pro- and anti- Europe forces inside the Tory party escape from
the bag into which they had been sealed when Mr Howard became leader.

But it is the Prime Minister and a Labour government that should be concerned
about the longer term implications of growing anti-European sentiment. The real
story of this election could be that a mere 50 per cent of voters in Thursday's
poll will vote for either of the two main parties. The latest Populus poll
suggests that the combined vote of UKIP, Greens and Liberal Democrats will equal
the Tory and Labour votes. In the longer term, this poses just as awkward a
threat to Labour, and sows the seeds for their disillusioned supporters to find
new homes for their votes.

Immediately after the European votes are counted, the Prime Minister sets off
for Brussels to conduct the final negotiations for the constitution. If he
ignores the sentiment against the current drift of legislative power away from
national parliaments to Brussels, he will find that the UKIP foothold on the
political process will begin to threaten his own marginal constituencies.

So far, it has been assumed - probably correctly - that the UKIP advance has
been at the Tories' expense. UKIP has merely capitalised on the soft
"Eurosceptic" middle class vote. But if it subsequently manages to capitalise on
the latent Europhobic vote among the council estates of Labour's traditional
supporters, it could cost some marginal seats in the way the Referendum Party
lost the Tories votes in the 1997 election.

This may not be enough to prevent a third term Labour victory, but there is a
steady build-up of disillusionment against the political elites. We are pretty
certain from Mr Blair's interview on yesterday's Today programme that the
referendum on the new constitution will not come until after the next election.
If Mr Blair does get safely back in office, it will then be his task to deliver
a "yes" vote. And by having couched the whole debate on the basis that a "no"
vote would, in effect, be a vote for withdrawal, he will continue to fuel the
UKIP campaign in a way that even Mr Howard's unwitting strategists could not
have dreamt of.

If some of Robert Kilroy-Silk's fellow candidates get elected on Thursday,
although they may make little impact inside the European Parliament, they will
be very much seen and heard in the months and years ahead - at least as much as
the Liberal Democrats. They will also be given legitimacy by the Electoral
Commission, which has to make a formal judgement on the rules over the funding
and official representation of the "No" campaign. If Mr Howard wakes up to a
headache next Monday when the election results are known, it will be as nothing
compared to the nightmare to which Mr Blair may one day awake when the
referendum result is eventually declared.

mrbrown@pimlico.freeserve.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              215 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: MISSING GREEN MEPS

BYLINE: DR SPENCER FITZ-GIBBON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 291 words


Sir: The Independent's map of the UK's Euro-election landscape today was
seriously misleading. If it was intended to show the current situation, it
omitted the two sitting Green MEPs, in London and the South East.

If it was meant to show predictions it was even worse, because current polls
suggest the Greens will return at least three and possibly six or more MEPs.
Tuesday's poll shows the Greens on 8-9 per cent. This is enough to guarantee the
Greens seats in the bigger regions (London, North West, South East). It also
means probable Green seats in Eastern, South West and West Midlands. Yorkshire
and Scottish Greens are certainly within striking distance. It's important to
note that the polls almost always show the Greens lower than our actual vote,
and predict fewer seats than we actually win.

For example, in last year's Scottish Parliament elections the Greens were
predicted to win 3-4 seats but won 7. In the last London Assembly elections we
were predicted to win 2 but won 3. In the 1989 Euro-elections the Greens were on
7 per cent in the polls but won 15 per cent of the vote. If the polls are true
to form in underestimating the Greens' prospects, there could be as many as
eight or nine UK Green MEPs next week.

We must also remember factors such as regional variation - the 8-9 per cent
Green average in the polls will translate into significantly higher votes in our
best-prospect Euro-regions - and the effect of the regional list voting system.
A Ukip surge from 7 per cent to 13 per cent would not be enough for 2 Ukip MEPs
in any region, but would serve to lower the electoral threshold meaning Greens
elected in a larger number of regions.

Dr SPENCER FITZ-GIBBON

Green Party

London N19

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              216 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: EURO ELECTIONS LACK LEADERSHIP AND DEBATE

BYLINE: RICHARD DENTON-WHITE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 319 words


Sir: The biggest irony of the current European elections, is that only Ukip -
the party committed to a "screw loose" policy of taking Britain out of the EU -
are raising the issue of Europe at all. Their poster campaign has totally
eclipsed that of the other parties, with its negative and simplistic Say No to
Europe message and they have shown verve in putting that message across to the
voting public.

The mainstream parties have singularly failed to show leadership in making a
positive case for Europe. Blair spoke of "Britain at the centre of Europe" in
1997 and yet we've heard nothing from New Labour about their current vision of
Europe. Unsurprisingly, given Europe's potent ability in the last two decades to
split the Tories, Michael Howard has been almost religiously mute on the
subject. Charles Kennedy and his Liberal Democrat colleagues have, as the "on
paper" most pro-European political party, the least excuse of all to remain
silent about the EU and the possibility of future entry into the euro.

By attempting to convert these European elections into a referendum on Iraq they
have undermined the good work of Graham Watson and his team of Liberal Democrat
MEPs, sapped the enthusiasm of their own Euro-positive activists and run the
risk of repeating the electoral humiliation that the party suffered at the hands
of the Greens soon after its formation in the 1980s.

Given such failure to open an informed debate on Europe, the electorate's
disillusionment with mainstream parties and their conviction-shy leaders is
hardly surprising. The political establishment should therefore not feign
surprise when the British people fail to vote and endorse their opportunistic
pragmatism this Thursday. If Ukip do well it will reflect a collective failure
of courage to put a positive case for Europe by those who should know better.

RICHARD DENTON-WHITE

Portland, Dorset

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              217 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

BLAIR WAR OF INDEPENDENCE

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 214 words

HIGHLIGHT: WARNING: Mr Blair yesterday


TONY Blair last night warned about the rise of the UK Independence Party amid
fears that Labour is losing votes to the far right.

The Prime Minister said there was a need for a "real debate" about the
implications of backing a party which supports pulling out of the EU.

He said: "We need to challenge this notion that in the early 21st century
Britain's best interests are served by leaving the biggest economic union on
earth." He asked: "Is it actually sensible when 60 per cent of our trade is
within Europe, when every other country is trying to get in the EU, for us to
get out?""

The attack on the UKIP comes after a poll showed Labour and the Tories are
losing support them and other fringe parties.

The poll said the UKIP could double their vote in tomorrow's elections for local
councils, the London mayor and the European Parliament.

Labour and the Tories could see their share of the vote plummet to 25 per cent
and the Liberal Democrats risk being forced into fourth place.

Tory leader Michael Howard accused Mr Blair of making "huge concessions" to
Europe which did not suit British interests.

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy was forced on the defensive over claims of
negative campaigning by focusing on Iraq rather than domestic issues.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              218 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

BLAIR WAR OF INDEPENDENCE

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: 1 Star Slip Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words

HIGHLIGHT: WARNING: Mr Blair yesterday


TONY Blair yesterday warned voters on the rise of the UK Independence Party.

The Prime Minister said there was a need for a "real debate" about backing a
party which supports leaving the EU.

He explained: "We need to challenge this notion that in the early 21st century
Britain's best interests are served by leaving the biggest economic union on
earth."

He asked: "Is it actually sensible when 60 per cent of our trade is within
Europe, when every other country is trying to get in the EU, for us to get out?"

The attack comes after a poll showed Labour and the Tories are losing support to
the UKIP and other fringe parties.

The survey said the UKIP could double their vote in tomorrow's elections for
local councils, the London mayor and the European Parliament. Labour and the
Tories could see their share plummet to 25 per cent and the Liberal Democrats
risk being forced into fourth place.

Tory leader Michael Howard accused Mr Blair of making "huge concessions" to
Europe which did not suit British interests.

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy was forced on the defensive over claims of
negative campaigning by focusing on Iraq rather than domestic issues.

- HUNDREDS of thousands of postal ballots have failed to arrive at voters' homes
or been incorrectly filled out, threatening tomorrow's elections.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              219 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

VOICE OF THE SCOTTISH DAILY MIRROR: BORING BUT IMPORTANT..

SECTION: Scots Edition; LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 172 words


YAWN, yawn, yawn - it's the European elections again and who cares?

Nobody, it would seem, unless they are involved with one of the parties vainly
trying to convince Scotland we should get up to mark X in the box.

During the last General Election, Scotland's stay-at-home brigade was the only
party to make any gains. It was one of the worst turn-outs ever.

What makes the politicians think this election - amid all the allegations of
sleaze, gravy trains and straight bananas - will entice us back to the booths?

Some say voting will help our fishing industry, our schools, our economy.

And there may be a few who reckon the UK Independence party are the best new fad
to follow.

It really is a poor choice, but one Scots must allow to prick their consciences
for. Whoever they decide to back, it may be worth it in the end.

The way things are looking, however, politics will only be full of losers as the
public vote of confidence is delivered in the way they don't want to happen.

No vote at all.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              220 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

WHAT IS IT GOOD FOR?;
 EVEN POLITICIANS ARE BORED OF THE EURO ELECTIONS...

BYLINE: SASHA JENSEN

SECTION: Scots Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 904 words

HIGHLIGHT: WHY?: We don't know really; APATHY: Big names like Kilroy are
struggling for attention; WHO?: Your candidate; WHAT? Another nobody to get in


IS this the most boring election ever? Even some of the politicians can't name
their own Euro MPs.

Talk to the politicians who are desperate to score a few points against their
enemies and they say, "No".

Talk to the public and they say most definitely, "Yes".

The European elections are taking place tomorrow - but you wouldn't know it.

There are very few posters on lampposts and hardly any households have been
visited by the canvassers from the big parties.

Voters are ignoring the election in droves - terrifying the big parties who fear
a low poll could benefit small parties.

Tommy Sheridan's Scottish Socialists are among those who could benefit from the
apathy - trying to win their first seat in the European Parliament.

And Robert Kilroy-Silk's UK Independence Party are causing the Tories no end of
panic.

But apart from these glimmers of interest this has been a damp squib of a
campaign.

The Mirror pounded the Edinburgh streets around the Scottish Parliament in
search of would-be voters - but all we found was apathy.

"What is the point of voting, if I vote my taxes will stay the same, my life
won't change so it's a waste of everyone's time," said driver David McCormick.

Even the politicians could not shed much light on who to vote for or why.

On a quick straw poll, the vast majority of them could not name, when asked,
most of the current MEPs and could hardly remember any candidates who were
standing in the Euro elections.

Labour's top Euro candidate and current Vice President of the European
Parliament, David Martin, was the only person to know all of the candidates and
said the ignorance of politicians was a crying shame.

"If politicians can't name the MEPs then who can? People have to believe the
European Parliament makes a difference.

"But people perceive it as blancmange - all cuddly and close together - but
that's not the case because there are real issues out there that matter."

He also tried to defuse the rumours that Labour was ashamed of Tony Blair which
is why he was notably absent from European election campaign promotional videos.

"We are damned if we do and damned if we don't. Last time Blair was accused of
being too presidential, but we are not ashamed of Tony Blair, he is still an
asset but we needed to focus on the people who are running for this election."

Around Holyrood there are few punters who are taking any interest in the
election.

For example, Mike McCluskey, a 21-year-old student, said: "I have no idea what
this is all about.

"There has hardly been any publicity about it at all. I couldn't tell you the
names of anyone standing for election, nor could any of my mates, it means
nothing at all to us."

Annabel Pollock, 20, said: "Who should I vote for, why should I vote?

"No-one has convinced me to vote on Thursday. No leaflets, nothing. So you tell
me why I should bother."

Scottish Green Party leader, Robin Harper was stunned by the punters apparent
apathy on voting this week.

He said: "For goodness sake you are in a changing world and you must play a part
in how it is changing and how we live.

"We are just after the D-Day celebrations and thousands of people died for the
freedom for the young people today - so go and vote. It is very very sad that
people are not interested."

HE warned that much more legislation would come from Europe in future and
Scotland needed to be represented.

He said: "More than 50 per cent of legislation comes from Europe so I can only
say ignore this Euro election at your peril."

Scottish National Party leader John Swinney is desperate for a good showing in
this election - because a poor show could spell the end for his leadership.

He is leading from the front in his party's scramble for votes - and claims the
war has sickened many voters.

He said: "I have toured every corner in Scotland and people find it hard to
connect to the idea of why voting is important.

"But people have responded to our message of Scottish politics as a two horse
race and we have a chance to beat Labour.

"It is time to teach Tony Blair a lesson. He cannot peddle lies and mislead this
country over Iraq and get away with it."

The SNP leader also denied the reports that he was going to resign if his party
did not have a successful result and said he had an important job to do and that
no one was going to stop him doing it

He said: "I have a long term job to do and I intend to lead this party to the
2007 elections. This vote is about the SNP becoming a powerful voice in Europe."

Leader of the SSP, Tommy Sheridan, urged Scots to vote - if only to hit Blair
for dragging us into the Iraq war.

HE slammed Blair's "lies" leading up to the Iraq war and urged voters to use
their votes as a protest against the war.

Tommy added: "This is the opportunity to kick Blair right where it hurts: in the
ballots.

"The turnout may be even worse than last time which is sad but understandable
because people just aren't interested in the issues in Europe."

Last year more than 23 million people cast their votes for TV show Big Brother
while in 1999 more than 11 million turned out for the European Elections.

But Thursday's vote could see less than a third of voters in Scotland using
their vote, begging the question of what is more important to us - a reality TV
show or the people who shape our reality?

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              221 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

I see no threat to Labour, says Blair

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 453 words


TONY BLAIR denied yesterday that he faced any serious political threat from the
Conservatives or Liberal Democrats, saying that neither had come up with "the
big argument" to beat Labour.

Hinting for the first time that he planned to call a general election next
spring, the Prime Minister said that there was no evidence of a change in
British politics that could sweep Labour out of office.

Despite the prospect of severe losses for Labour in tomorrow's local and
European elections, Mr Blair gave an upbeat assessment of his party's chances at
a general election. "I think these things change when a big argument comes back
the other way that wins," he told BBC Radio 4.

"That is what happened with us before 1997. New Labour was a winning political
argument. For the first time you had the Labour Party, a progressive political
party, saying you can combine economic efficiency with social justice. I don't
notice that coming back from either of the two main parties now. When that
happens, when you actually see that big argument come the other way, then I
think you are at a moment of change, but I don't notice that at the moment."

Although some aides were alarmed that the Prime Minister chose to talk up
Labour's prospects just at the time they are trying to play them down, they are
relieved that the Tories appear to have failed to make a significant electoral
breakthrough. A Populus poll for The Times this week put the Tories on 24 per
cent, compared with 36 per cent when the same elections were fought in 1999. The
poll suggested that Labour will get about 26 per cent of the vote, down just two
points from 1999's mid-term elections.

Mr Blair, who flew to the US for a G8 summit, will play no further part in the
election campaign. He has been criticised by the other parties for already
having played a small part in the campaign, which has largely been left to John
Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, and Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary.
Michael Howard used the last full day of campaigning to attack the EU
constitution, accusing Mr Blair of failing to secure the majority of "red lines"
during the negotiations, which come to an end next week. The Conservative
leader, who has been criticised for failing to foresee the threat posed to his
party by the UK Independence Party, said that Mr Blair was poised to hand over
sovereignty to Brussels on foreign affairs and criminal justice.

Labour accused Mr Howard of rehashing a year-old attack. "His speech will fool
no one. It is a parody of what happened during the (negotiations), in which we
made a good deal of progress," Mr Straw said.

Simon Jenkins, page 20

Alice Miles, page 20

Letters, page 21


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              222 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

Howard's popularity eroded by Tory defectors to the UKIP

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 406 words


MICHAEL HOWARD'S rating as a party leader has fallen after the erosion of Tory
support to the UK Independence Party in the European elections.

A new Populus poll for The Times, undertaken over the weekend, shows that Mr
Howard's rating has fallen since April but the standings of Tony Blair and
Charles Kennedy have remained virtually unchanged.

Populus asked voters to rate the party leaders on a 0 to 10 scale. On this
basis, Mr Howard has slipped from 4.90 to 4.55 over the past two months. His
rating has been volatile since he became leader seven months ago and he has now
fallen behind Mr Kennedy again. Mr Howard's rating has fallen sharply among Tory
supporters, down 0.32 to 6.54. One in ten voters rate him 8 out of 10 or higher,
compared with 20 per cent giving Mr Blair that rating.

The public now seems to be making up its mind about Mr Howard because the number
of voters saying that they do not know how good a leader he is has dropped from
18 per cent in April to 12 per cent now. This is roughly the same as the number
without a view about Mr Kennedy as a leader, and compares with a mere 2 per cent
saying that they do not know how good a leader Mr Blair is.

The fall in Mr Howard's rating comes after the indication in the latest Populus
poll that support for the Tories in the European elections could fall to about
24 per cent from 36 per cent in the 1999 elections. This might be a couple of
points behind Labour. The Tories are likely, however, to do much better in the
council elections, in which they are expected to be well ahead of Labour in
share of the vote and seats won. Labour faces a double squeeze in view of likely
Liberal Democrat gains in inner-city areas, especially in the North.

Mr Blair's leader rating has remained stable at 5.03, roughly its level since
October last year. His rating has slipped among swing or floating voters who may
change their preference before the next election, but has risen among Tory
supporters. His standing among Labour voters is 7.37, the best of any of the
leaders among their own party's supporters.

Mr Kennedy's rating has dropped by a fraction since April to 4.85. His rating is
unchanged among Liberal Democrat supporters at 6.32.

* Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults aged over 18 by telephone
between June 4 and 6.

What must Howard do to inspire voters?

Send your e-mails to debate@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              223 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

K(in)nock, K(in)nock, who's there? Mr Howard

BYLINE: Alice Miles

SECTION: Features; 20

LENGTH: 967 words


The Opposition has been outflanked just as Labour leaders were in 1992

ON THE night before Labour's disastrous Shadow Budget in the 1992 general
election campaign, party leaders met until the small hours in Neil Kinnock's
gloomy offices. A clever move in the Budget a few days earlier had trapped him
and his Shadow Chancellor, John Smith: they had to choose whether to hit the
middle classes in the pocket, or whether to hurt the poor. The arguments went
round and round in circles.

In the end they refused to attack the poor, so the middle classes took the hit
instead. In The Times the next day, under the headline "Where pips will squeak",
Anatole Kaletsky predicted disaster for Labour: "Instead of trying to make
socialism compatible with individual advancement," he wrote, "Mr Smith has
deliberately created a tax structure more punitive to the middle class than any
previous Labour government's." Except that it wasn't deliberate. A carefully
crafted position on tax and spending had fallen apart because of a surprise move
by the Tories. The only person who immediately grasped the implications at the
time was Mr Kinnock's economic adviser, John Eatwell, who said after the Tory
Budget: "That's it. It's all over. We've got no money to spend. Neil's got no
speech." The politicians didn't get it: they stood around drinking champagne and
congratulating Mr Kinnock on a fine reply speech.

I was reminded of all this when I listened to Michael Howard's faltering
interview on the Today programme last week. The Tory leader was going round and
round in circles on Europe: unable to say what he believed; unwilling to confirm
or deny that some of his MPs agree with the United Kingdom Independence Party;
clinging on to an unsustainable position that he could somehow rewrite the rules
and withdraw from certain bits of "Europe", such as the Common Fisheries Policy,
while remaining a full member.

It was suddenly clear that the Tory policy on Europe had amounted to no more
than demanding a referendum on the EU constitution. When Tony Blair conceded the
referendum, the Tories stood around patting one another on the back for having
forced the Prime Minister into a humiliating U-turn. Events since have shown, as
they did Mr Kinnock, that having the rug pulled from under your feet is no time
to be filling your glass up with champagne.

Europe is not the only issue on which Mr Howard has got himself trapped. He has
nothing to say on health, education, or transport either. On tax and spending he
has signed up to a position with which he disagrees -that the Tories should meet
Labour spending on health and education while bringing overall expenditure down
to 40 per cent of GDP -then let it be known privately that he would be happy to
see spending fall to 35 per cent or lower. When Mr Blair taunts him at Question
Time about his policies, Mr Howard has nothing to say. In the Commons it doesn't
matter; the Leader of the Opposition is not there to give answers. But it does
matter when the voters come to call.

There is something of the Kinnock about Mr Howard. It was often written that
William Hague was the Tories' Michael Foot -the low point in a dismal period.

Then along came Iain Duncan Smith, and here was another Michael Foot! At least
now the Tories have found their Kinnock.

And it only took a local and European election campaign to reveal him. Never
mind the results, and the comfort that all parties will pretend to draw from
them.

Never mind the UKIP. Look at what has happened to voting intentions at a general
election. The Times's latest poll has the Tories at 29 per cent -down 7 points
since early May, with Labour at 31 per cent -down 1 point. This is among those
likely to vote. A MORI poll last week produced a similar result: Labour leading
the Tories by 35 points to 34 among those saying they were certain to vote,
while among the public as a whole, Labour led by 37 to 30.

Mr Howard's leadership rating has fallen sharply, even among Conservative
supporters. Outside the Tory party, is this really because Mr Howard wrote an
article in The Independent distancing himself from Mr Blair over Iraq, and
people thought: ah, that's opportunist, I don't think much of his leadership
skills? It is far more likely that the relentless Labour assault on his record,
and his higher visibility over the past month, have undone him. The supposed
Tory revival that we read so much about a couple of months ago has collapsed.

The Shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin, a liability at the last general election,
has been caught indicating his preference for much lower public spending as well
as apparently telling a private meeting that the NHS would not exist within five
years of a Tory election victory. The party chairman, Liam Fox, is widely
believed to be more interested in campaigning for his own future leadership than
for the party. Tory policies are weak to non-existent, the public doesn't trust
Mr Howard and Labour has barely turned on the pressure.

Mr Blair dismisses Mr Howard as a short-term tactician, not a strategist. His
own strategists are, if not quite cock-a-hoop knowing the drubbing they will get
tomorrow, then at least chick-a-hoop. Mr Blair's pollster, Philip Gould,
predicted at a meeting of Labour peers three weeks ago that the party would win
the general election by 100 seats; an ICM poll this weekend made that 107 seats.
Labour's problem at the general election will be turnout among its own voters
furious about Iraq. Throw them a ban on fox hunting or other suitable bait and
they will probably turn out.

In that gloomy room in 1992, principle won over expediency, but lost the
election.

The Tories are allowing expediency to trump principle -but so unconvincingly
that they still lose.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              224 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

Democracy is dying

BYLINE: Simon Jenkins

SECTION: Features; 20

LENGTH: 1333 words


ON MONDAY Tony Blair went electioneering in Birmingham. He needed protection
from an armed helicopter and half the West Midlands police. As in liberated
Iraq, so in Birmingham Mr Blair can no longer walk the public streets but must
stick to a "secure zone", here a school playground.

The children declined to be election fodder. One youth declared Mr Blair a fake
for having "too small ears". Most went on doing whatever they do during break in
a league-tabled, performance-bonused, challenge-funded Blairite "academy". They
screached, fought, banged into detectives and discussed the shocking price of
drugs.

Mr Blair's face had to show a giant effort of will. His smile seemed at a loss.

What am I doing here? it cried. Yesterday I was safe in Normandy with George
Bush and world leaders. Tomorrow I shall be safe in the US with George Bush and
more world leaders. World leaders are what I do these days, said the smile. I
can do Moses on Sinai. I can do Henry at Agincourt. I can even do God at the
creation of new Labour. What the hell am I doing in Perry Beaches, Birmingham?

The answer is democracy. If tomorrow is Super Thursday, then this must be
Birmingham. Mr Blair must smile even if the smile goes out to tender and is won
by a used-car dealer from spaghetti junction. Worse, tomorrow is two elections
in one, for the European Parliament and for local councils. The Government has
even added an "experiment" of postal voting in the North of England, well away
from the London media in case of fiasco.

The first test is going to be the turnout. Politicians are now like priests.
They would rather we patronised their own church, but any church is better than
none.

They gaze out across the political landscape and see only apathy and irreligion.

The masses must be moved from their television couches to worship in the polling
booths.

The European election does not matter. Its outcome has no impact on "who rules
Britain" because the European Parliament has no executive responsibility. The
emergence of the UK Independence Party has turned it into a virtual referendum
on Europe, a unique one. A vote for the UKIP is not a vote against Labour or
Tory. It is simply a no to Europe.

The real elections are the other ones. Local councils still administer two
thirds of public services and the recent decline in participation has been
alarming. It has undermined local government legitimacy and boosted the
Treasury's case for central control. Nobody who cares for healthy democracy can
ignore this trend.

Declining turnout is a pan-European phenomenon, but in most of Europe reformers
are determined to counter it. Only in Britain is it treated as an exogenous
disease, like global warming or the decline of the red squirrel.

Turnouts in British local elections are shocking. They are not just worse than
anywhere, they are far worse. Average participation rates in European sub
national elections over the past decade have been 80 per cent in Italy, 79 per
cent in Sweden, 76 per cent in Spain, 72 per cent in Denmark, 70 per cent in
Germany and 59 per cent in France. In America, state elections are in the 40-50
per cent range but these figures reflect complex registration regimes. Turnout
of registered voters averages 65 per cent.

The British figure is 35 per cent and falling. It is appalling not because
British people have no interest in their communities. They are deeply
interested. When asked if they want more democracy they invariably say yes.
Londoners were eight to one in favour of recovering metropolitan
self-government. Asked by MORI which tier of democracy people most trust, they
choose the tier closest to home, the local town or district council.

Yet they do not vote. The reason is no mystery. It is that British local
government has less power and can make less impact on public services than
anywhere else. The electorate is not stupid. If voting in local elections makes
no difference, why bother? When national parties hijack local elections as
popularity tests, why flatter them?

The Government's introduction of postal voting is sensible. It makes sense both
in itself and as prelude to a wider use of electronic franchise. Noble though it
may be to force citizens to stomp to their primary school or village hall, most
have a hundred reasons for not bothering. Postal voting removes one reason.

The pity was that reform was given to John Prescott to organise. Mr Prescott has
no interest in council elections, only in extending the power bases of his
regional offices and ensuring that no subsidiary democracy gets in their way.

I cannot see the case against going another step and making voting in local
elections compulsory. Citizenship is a formal concept involving diverse
obligations. Local taxes are compulsory. Sending children to school is
compulsory.

Obedience to planning laws is compulsory. Jury service is compulsory. Even
signing an electoral register is compulsory. It is hardly a leap towards
Leninism to ask those on the register to complete a subsequent postal ballot.
There can always be a box for "none of the above".

Compulsory voting has existed in Australia since 1915, with roughly 5 per cent
registering a non-vote. It exists in whole or part in Belgium, Luxembourg,
Greece, Austria, Switzerland and most of Latin America. Participation rates run
at over 90 per cent, with no detectable bias towards any end of the political
spectrum. There is supposedly a mild incentive to the inclusion of minorities,
which is hardly a bad thing. Participating in a ballot is not a matter of
voluntarism or compulsion.

It is merely a civic duty.

To the hard men and women of Westminster, this is all wimp talk. They recognise
only votes for themselves. Postal voting is an attempt to avoid humiliation in
the European elections, that is all. The decline of local democracy is of no
concern since by definition it enhances the status of Westminster
parliamentarians.

Thus why should Birmingham need civic potency -as does Munich, Toulouse, Milan
or Barcelona -when it can enjoy the beneficent rule of a Government Office for
the West Midlands? Is not Cornwall better ruled from Bristol than from distant
Truro or Penzance? Is not Kent well-governed from Guildford, as now proposed?

The one argument against compulsory voting in Britain is that it would mask the
reason for its necessity, the malaise that has led to collapsing turnouts. When
citizens go to the polls elsewhere in Europe it is because the polls matter. It
makes a difference who is mayor, who is governor, who is councillor. These
individuals and institutions provide schools and clinics. They levy and relieve
taxes. They determine planning applications.

In many of these countries such powers have specifically been devolved in recent
years. As a result, local democracy resists the centre. It confronts (and
disobeys) Brussels and the health and safety apparat. Its citizens fight
bureaucracy, where Britons merely cower.

Tomorrow's two elections are thus sides of the same coin. The rise of the UKIP
reflects public rage at the inevitability of Brussels aggrandisement, which no
British government has seemed able to check. One day that rage will be turned on
Westminster, now displaying exactly the same power mania so deplored in
Brussels.

Last month, Mr Prescott gratuitously reintroduced Tory rate-capping, stripping a
dozen councils of accountability to their electors. He is to local democracy
what Donald Rumsfeld is to prison reform. Yet the Tories did not protest.

The UKIP is precursor of a Cornwall Independence Party, a Wiltshire IP, a
Norfolk IP, a Derbyshire IP, perhaps modelled, heaven help us, on the London IP,
also known as Ken Livingstone. There will be rate strikes, nimby riots and High
Court suits. Then prime ministers will dare go nowhere without helicopter
gunships. Then and only then shall Britons know the power of the vote.

simon.jenkins@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

Some southern discomfort for Scottish Tories

BYLINE: Angus Macleod

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 12

LENGTH: 756 words


UNTIL the past few days the Scottish Tories thought they had escaped the UK
Independence Party cloud that is casting a shadow over the prospects of their
counterparts in England.

The Tories north of the border had appeared confident that they would secure the
two Euro seats they won in 1999. They were even harbouring hopes of coming top
of the poll in terms of voting share.

But two opinion polls have put paid to these hopes and a nervous shudder is
gripping the Scottish Tories. They are contemplating the possibility of the UKIP
demonstrating an unheralded tartan edge and grabbing about 11 per cent of the
votes.

If that happens, the Scottish Tories could be reduced to one seat, making their
previous enthusiasm for these elections appear, to say the least, misguided.

The UKIP campaign in Scotland has been a relatively muted compared to that in
England but that may not matter tomorrow. The lurking Scottish Tory hostility
about Europe may have found a natural if temporary home with the UKIP, just as
it appears to be doing south of the border.

These opinion polls have to treated with caution but, thanks to the UKIP,
tomorrow may shatter the idea that Scots, on the whole, are more favourably
disposed than the English towards Brussels.

That realisation may lie behind the Scottish National Party's more cynical line
these days about Europe. John Swinney, party leader, has made the refusal of
Brussels and London to accommodate the wishes of the Scottish fishing fleet the
SNP's defining issue in these elections.

That plays well in the nationalist fishing heartland of north-east Scotland but
probably leaves the rest of Scotland largely unmoved. Mr Swinney and the SNP
hierarchy look like a different party from the one that made Scottish
independence within Europe its touchstone policy ten years ago. The SNP has not
become a Eurosceptic party, but neither is it truly a Euro-enthusiast party any
more.

Confused? Most voters will be too as they watch the Tories and the SNP engage in
an arcane political wrestling match about how best to get out of the Common
Fisheries Policy.

The Nationalists, like the Tories, are aiming to keep their two seats in the
European Parliament but Mr Swinney has laid a trap for himself, boasting that
his aim is to out-poll Labour. Privately, the Nationalists increasingly fear
that that will not happen. Their attempt to be the anti-Iraq war party has not
worked either simply because they have been drowned out by the more raucous
rhetoric of the Scottish Socialists on the issue.

Mr Swinney may have some explaining to do after the results are announced in
Scotland on Monday. If he actually loses an MEP, he will be in deep political
trouble.

Labour in Scotland, like Labour nationally, is dreading these elections. Riven
already by rows over MEP expenses and public antipathy between candidates, the
party knows that many of those who turn out will do so to punish the party and
Tony Blair over Iraq. Many other disaffected Labour voters will stay at home. It
remains unlikely, however, that Labour will be reduced from their present three
MEPs to one.

The Liberal Democrats simply want to hang on to their one MEP, Elspeth Attwooll.

The Euro elections come risk-free for voters, primarily because whoever they
elect will disappear into the maws of Brussels and have no real influence in the
corridors of Euro power. That amounts to a golden opportunity for the minor
parties such as the Greens and the Scottish Socialists, who need only 10 per
cent of the vote to win a Euro seat.

The latter, in particular, with their easy anti-war slogans and appeal to
voters' "blame" instincts, have high hopes that Felicity Garvie, number one on
their list, could be booking a flight to Brussels. Even if that doesn't happen,
both these parties seem certain to continue the momentum of last year's Scottish
elections.

Indeed, there is just a chance that the Greens, rather than the Socialists,
could take a seat.

Scotland is being treated as one constituency for the purpose of these
elections, electing seven MEPs on a proportional basis from party lists. That is
one less MEP than in 1999 - almost certain to be Bill Miller, who is number
three on the Labour list. The Scottish parties' private predictions of turnout
vary from 19 per cent to 25 per cent.

Until this week even political anoraks were struggling to get excited about
tomorrow. Now with the prospect of a late UKIP charge, there is, at last, a
flicker of interest.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

Questioning democracy

SECTION: Features; 34

LENGTH: 1542 words


Would you rather spoil your ballot than vote by post? Is there a real danger
from the far Right? Or will voter apathy be the only clear winner this week?

NEIL CLARK'S article "Let's shut down the Tony and Michael show", (Comment, June
4) highlights once more the thoroughly undemocratic system of voting in our
country that is alienating millions of citizens from our method of parliamentary
representation.

In parliamentary elections, most people's votes count for nothing when they vote
against the dominant party. Only votes in marginal constituencies have any real
effect on the composition of Parliament. My entire adult voting life has been
spent in, first, a Labour heartland constituency and then a rock-solid Tory
seat.

My vote has never counted for anything in our supposedly democratic process.

The musician Billy Bragg has proposed a method by which voters would
demonstrably be assured that their votes were meaningful:

1. That the House of Commons should continue to be elected by a
first-past-the-post system, thus ensuring each citizen was represented by a
named MP and continuing the primacy of the Commons. 2. That the House of Lords
should be elected on a proportional representation list system, based on the
votes cast for the Commons, thus ensuring that everyone's vote counted towards
representation in that chamber.

This simple approach would be no more expensive than the current one -only one
election would be necessary. It would give democratic legitimacy to the House of
Lords and put an end to the thoroughly disgraceful House of Cronies that
presently prevails.

No citizen of this country could then claim that his or her vote did not count.

Maybe then the voting figures would start to rise. No doubt the European
elections will provide a large protest vote for the minor parties -but as this
is the only occasion when voters get the chance to register their disgust with
the system, it is only to be expected.

Democracy in Britain? I think it's a very good idea.

Gordon Munday, Chalfont St Peter, Buckinghamshire

No votes for the lazy

I COULD not agree more with Matthew Parris's opinions on postal voting,
especially the point about the loss of any sense of occasion (Comment, May 29).
Postal voting is fine for those who can't get to the ballot box, perhaps because
of disability or absence from home, but I think that we are better off without
the votes of people who don't think that voting is important enough to get
themselves to the polling stations.

Please let's stick with the tried and trusted ballot box. Low turnout is mostly
due to the quality of our politics, not of voting mechanisms.

Bill Ball, BallWF@aol.com

Glad to be a gadfly

IN THE European vote, all three of the main political parties have a strategy of
positioning themselves in national politics. But it is also a rare chance for
the voter to have a say at last about our relationship with Europe, even if it
is to elect expenses-grabbing MEPs to a corrupt and useless Parliament.

A vote for the UKIP is a kick up the backside for the main three parties and a
real chance to vote on their duplicity over the never-ending march to a federal
Europe to which they all have subscribed. So with relish I, a natural Tory, be
voting for that bunch of "little Englanders" the UKIP.

John Corfield, john@corfield.net

The Swiss method

THERE are other reasons apart from laziness for not voting. I do not vote
because I cannot accept the raft of policies being put forward by any of the
parties, and choosing the one which most nearly represents my views would give
unintended support to that party. I favour the Labour Party's policy on the EU,
but that of the Conservatives in regard to taxation. And one does not have the
opportunity - which the Australians have -to vote for none of the candidates up
for election.

I do feel that the Swiss system of having referendums on all important policies,
in addition to holding general elections, is preferable. It would prevent
Members of Parliament achieving election on the assumption that they will
represent their constituents but then, having been elected, pursuing their own
agendas.

Malcolm Lyall, MalcolmGLyall@aol.co.uk

The loss of secrecy

I SHALL abstain for the first time in 33 years in the forthcoming election. I am
more concerned at the loss to our democracy by the ending of the secret ballot
than the selection of MEPs for the North East Region, and I will express that
view by not voting.

I believe there must be many households in which pressures will be brought to
bear by strong-willed individuals on other family members to vote for a
candidate other than that of their choice.

Standing alone with a stubby pencil behind a screen in some shabby community
hall is a guarantee that everybody can vote for whoever they like. The postal
ballot heightens the temptation to impersonate absent or uninterested voters,
and fraud will not be uncovered by audits.

Rob Tooze, rob.tooze@btinternet.com

Walk proud

I LIVE in the North West and received my postal voting envelope today. I felt
totally disenfranchised, despite the forms being correct. I do not want to fill
in a form, get a witness to prove who I am and make sure I post it in time. I
want the walk to the booth and the social contact with people who hope to change
my mind right up to the last moment; the feeling that I am exercising my vote as
a woman in honour of the suffragettes, by walking into the booth in full view of
others.

Children learn by example. If they see adults taking time to step out of their
daily routines to vote, it is a better lesson than watching a busy adult mutter
about bumf and the waste of trees as they open another envelope and put it on
the pile to be attended to along with the bills.

The assumption that postal votes will increase the number of voters is nonsense
when you have to find someone to witness your signature and put different parts
in different envelopes -and the instructions read like those of an MFI flat-pack
table. I feel like chucking it all in the bin. I just hope the postal voting is
not a success and we get the booths back.

Lillias Cooper, cooper@cooper123.totalserve.co.uk

Full exposure

THE Alexa internet ranking for the British National Party website is 24,471: the
Conservatives 73,369: the Labour Party 142,516 and the Lib Dems 254,526. The
smaller the number, the greater the interest in the site. The media's consistent
denial of a platform has heightened interest in the BNP. If this party really is
a threat to civilisation, surely you should interview them. I do fear extreme
views -as much as I fear the idea that I cannot make an informed judgment given
all the facts.

Paul Mahon, paul.wmahon@btinternet.com

Bin and burn

THE only way I can express my disapproval of the postal vote is by not using it.
I can only hope that thousands of others will join me in consigning their ballot
papers to the bin with the rest of their junk mail. The more extrovert may
choose to light bonfires or send them to the Deputy Prime Minister.

J. M. Shepherd, Ilkley, West Yorkshire

Time to cry

WHAT should the other parties do about the UKIP? Panic. But they won't. The
message is too dour: a protest by the lumpen masses about such vague concepts as
heritage, the common law and parliamentary democracy.

This is far too "off message", of course,for the Tories who, under Howard, have
lost their bottle and skulk about like some cutpurse waiting for the odd stray.

And for Labour it is anathema, disrupting their dreams of a socialist super
state underpinned by the dithering euro.

It is, however, a delicious snapshot of the moral degeneracy of our current crop
of politicos. In time-honoured fashion they will do nothing, hoping that the
traditional apathy of the Brits will do their work for them. And they might just
be right.

David Taylor, Leeds

Serve democracy first

I HOPE and pray that far-right parties don't get enough seats to form their
block, and trigger EU funding. But if they do, then isn't that just democracy?

I get nervous when I hear racist politics, but I get equally nervous when
well-meaning left-of-centrists start wanting to change the rules whenever
something that they don't like looks like happening. Extremists of all types
have to be fought on the basis of their arguments in public debate, not by means
of some sleazy fix.

Garrick Fincham, Leicester

Which Ken?

WILL the real Ken Livingstone please stand up? Matthew Parris reflects the
widely held view of Ken Livingstone, the populist and people's champion. But
there are two Kens: the pragmatic and the enigmatic. He has improved the
capital's public transport, but has yet to take on his fellow travellers at the
RMT who are for ever threatening to bring the Tube system to a halt. Ken the
statesman condemns President Bush and Ariel Sharon, while staying almost silent
on Osama bin Laden and Yassir Arafat. His new boss, Tony Blair, should tell him
to stop trying to do the Prime Minister's job as well as his own. Matthew may be
putting his "shaky cross" beside Ken's name. I will not be joining him.

Michael Fishman, London N2


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 9, 2004, Wednesday

Election time gentlemen please

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 138 words


THE locals in The Snooty Fox in Newbury were indulging their favourite habit of
putting the world to rights when they suddenly became centre stage of a heated
debate on the future of Europe.

The mainstream political candidates in tomorrow's European and local elections
had walked off the stage at a nearby public hall after a representative of the
BNP showed up.

David Rendel, the local Liberal Democrat MP, Nirj Deva, a Tory MEP, and Richard
Robinson, a Tory candidate for the South East, decamped to the pub with the
audience in tow to reconvene the meeting.

"It was surreal," said Robinson, "holding forth on Europe with my rivals in a
pub supping pints while the bemused locals looked on."

As for UKIP, they stayed behind with the BNP, which has endorsed UKIP's star
candidate Robert Kilroy Silk.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              228 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 8, 2004

The only realistic vision for Europe

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 598 words


CAN there be a more devastating indictment of the European policies of our
mainstream political parties than the dramatic surge in the opinion polls of
support for the UK Independence Party?

Under New Labour, Britain gives in to every demand from Brussels. Tony Blair is
now backing a European constitution, which would hand over enormous powers to EU
bureaucrats, including the right to set out policies on issues ranging from
criminal justice to foreign policy.

And doesn't it speak volumes about the Prime Minister's contempt for the British
people's views on Europe that, having performed a spectacularly cynical U-turn
on a referendum for the proposed constitution, he has become the 'invisible man'
in the EU election, barely discussing the issue or its momentous implications?

But the Tories in government can hardly claim a better record. They signed the
Single European Act and the Maastricht Treaty, beginning the transformation of
what was presented to the British people as a trading market into a superstate.

After 30 years of broken promises from British politicians and a
federalist-driven European Commission, which now interferes in every aspect of
our life, it is hardly surprising that polls suggest at least 20 per cent of
voters are ready to support UKIP and drive the Liberal Democrats into fourth
place.

Tempting, yes. But also utterly counterproductive. For the truth is that any
split in the Eurosceptic vote will dilute the message about just how unhappy
people are with the EU and enable Mr Blair to present the result as a success
for New Labour.

More pertinently, UKIP's policy - total withdrawal - will only serve to frighten
the great sceptical but moderate majority into supporting the federalists.

No, the country is best served by a flexible, pragmatic approach, which makes it
clear to our European partners that markets, not sovereignty, should be shared.

Michael Howard yesterday said clearly that he will not be railroaded into
handing more powers to Brussels and that he will take powers back from the
Eurocrats.

That message should be heard loud and clear in this Thursday's election.

False economics

THE official unemployment level, at 4.7 per cent of the working population,
could hardly be more impressive.

But, behind this headline figure is a rather more disturbing reality.

According to the think-tank, Local Futures, most of the jobs created in the
North are in the public sector. Many are at the high quality end of the market -
with organisations where one in four staff are graduates.

And the bill is being footed by the taxpayer.

The contrasts are startling. Compare Lincolnshire and Rutland, where 69 per cent
of high-quality jobs are in the public sector, with the east of London where the
figure falls to 23per cent.

Job creation is important, particularly in areas of high unemployment.

But it doesn't take an economics genius to work out that if the jobs come mainly
in the public sector, private enterprise, long term, will not be able to create
the wealth to sustain all these fat state jobs.

Everyday heroes

WE take news for granted. It comes into our homes through newspapers, radio and
television.

Too often we forget this is only possible because journalists - those same
people who are so often maligned by modern society - risk their lives to get at
the truth.

Which is why today we salute the everyday common-or-garden courage of the
murdered BBC cameraman Simon Cumbers and send our prayers to the critically
wounded reporter Frank Gardner.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              229 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 8, 2004

Fight superstate from within EU, says Howard

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_4TH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 560 words



MICHAEL Howard invoked the spirit of Margaret Thatcher yesterday as he insisted
the Tories could block the creation of an EU superstate.

Under pressure from the UK Independence Party, the Tory leader said Baroness
Thatcher had blazed a trail by showing 'if you stand up for what you believe in,
you can get things done in Europe'.

With a poll indicating that the UK Independence Party could take a quarter of
Conservative votes in Thursday's European elections, Mr Howard promised to be
just as resolute as Lady Thatcher.

As Tory co-chairman Liam Fox denounced UKIP's promise to pull Britain out of
Europe as 'simplistic', Mr Howard insisted the right course was to fight for
British interests from inside.

He recalled Lady Thatcher's bruising battle over the UK budget rebate as he
addressed an election meeting in Bristol.

'She was told that there was nothing that could be done about the fact that
Britain paid more than her fair share of the total EU budget,' he said.

'People said to her "you'll never get our money back from Europe".

'Well, she wasn't having that.

She said no. And look what happened - Britain got her rebate, which is still
being paid.' Mr Howard said he wanted a more flexible Europe in which countries
would be free to integrate more closely if they wished - provided that other
countries were not forced to do so.

A Tory Government would reject the proposed EU Constitution - the party pointed
out yesterday that of 275 amendments proposed by the British Government, just 10
had been accepted.

Mr Howard insisted: 'Saying no doesn't mean we have to leave the EU - just as we
can say no to the euro without leaving the EU.

'Saying no would send a clear message to Europe: we want to control our lives
here in Britain.

We don't want to be railroaded into handing over yet more power to Brussels.'
The Howard offensive came as a YouGov poll for the Daily Telegraph showed UKIP
poised to steal 25 per cent of Tory voters in this week's election.

This would boost its representation in the European Parliament from three seats
to as many as 17, with the Tories suffering the biggest losses.

The poll showed UKIP at third place among those 'very likely' to vote on
Thursday, scoring 21 per cent against Labour's 24 per cent the Tories' 26 per
cent and the LibDems on 13 per cent.

But another poll in today's Times suggests that UKIP has only 13 per cent
support. It put Labour on 25 per cent but the Tories on only 24 per cent.

Tony Blair said yesterday he would carry the can for this week's results.

'The buck stops with me and that's part of the job,' he said as he joined the
campaign trail in the Midlands.

The ballot box rescue

EMERGENCY polling stations will open tomorrow after delivery problems meant
3,000 voters did not receive postal ballot papers.

Council staff in Bolton had no option but to open stations in two primary
schools in the Rumworth area. Earlier, they hand-delivered 1,600 postal voting
packs in another part of the town after it emerged forms had not been sent.

A council spokesman said staff realised the papers had not been delivered only
when they noticed there had been no votes coming in.

Traditional polling has been scrapped in four areas across the North and 14
million voters told they can vote only by post.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              230 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 8, 2004

WE CAN FIGHT EU SUPERSTATE FROM WITHIN, SAYS HOWARD

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 578 words


MICHAEL Howard invoked the spirit of Margaret Thatcher yesterday as he insisted
the Tories could block the creation of an EU superstate.

Under pressure from the UK Independence Party, the Tory leader said Baroness
Thatcher had blazed a trail by showing ' if you stand up for what you believe
in, you can get things done in Europe'.

With a poll indicating UKIP could take a quarter of Conservative votes in
Thursday's European elections, Mr Howard promised to be just as resolute in
getting a good deal for Britain in the EU.

As Tory co- chairman Liam Fox denounced UKIP's promise to pull Britain out of
Europe as 'simplistic', Mr Howard insisted the right course for Britain was to
fight for British interests from inside the EU.

He recalled Lady Thatcher's bruising battle over the UK budget rebate as he
addressed an election meeting in Bristol.

'She was told that there was nothing that could be done about the fact that
Britain paid more than her fair share of the total EU budget,' he said.

'People said to her "you'll never get our money back from Europe".

'Well, she wasn't having that. She said no. And look what happened Britain got
her rebate, which is still being paid to this day.' Mr Howard said he wanted a
more flexible Europe in which countries would be free to integrate more closely
with others if they wished provided other countries were not forced to do so.

'Saying no doesn't mean we would have to leave the EU just as we can say no to
the euro without leaving the EU,' he said.

' Saying no would send a clear message to Europe: we want to control our lives,
here in Britain.

'We don't want to be railroaded into handing over yet more power to Brussels.

'Conservative policy is simple. If some countries want to integrate more
closely, let them. But they cannot force Britain to join them if we don't want
to. And we will take back powers from Europe by tough negotiation just as we did
with the rebate'.

The Howard offensive came as a YouGov poll for the Daily Telegraph showed UKIP
are poised to steal 25 per cent of Tory voters in this week's election.

In contrast, just 5 per cent of Labour supporters and 4 per cent of LibDems said
they would defect to the 'pull out of Europe' party.

The poll showed UKIP at third place among those 'very likely' to vote on
Thursday, scoring 21 per cent against Labour's 24 per cent and the Tories' 26
per cent.

The LibDems are in fourth place on 13 per cent. If these figures are translated
into votes, UKIP could achieve a sensational breakthrough.

This would boost its representation in the European Parliament from three seats
to as many as 17, with the Tories suffering the biggest losses.

If the Tories are bracing themselves for disappointing European results, Labour
is dreading Thursday's council polls.

It faces the loss of hundreds of council seats and could see its share of the
vote fall below 30 per cent. Tony Blair said yesterday he would carry the can
for this week's results. ' I am Prime Minister. I always take responsibility.

'The buck stops with me and that's part of the job,' he said as he joined the
campaign trail in the Midlands.

Mr Howard said a Conservative Government would reject the proposed EU
Constitution.

The Tories also pointed out that of 275 amendments to the Constitution proposed
by the British Government, just 10 had been accepted.

d.hughes@dailymail.co.uk Comment Page Ten

END

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              231 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 8, 2004

TOO SILKY FOR HIS OWN GOOD

BYLINE: GEOFFREY LEVY

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1743 words


FOR SUCH an outsized, sunbed-kissed ego who once saw himself as a future Prime
Minister, the prospect of leading a political party has always been the supreme
goal. Even during his 18 lucrative years in TV, Robert Kilroy-Silk admitted that
for him politics was 'the ultimate vocation'.

So what had kept this saviour of the nation away from it for so long? His reply
betrayed no hesitation or embarrassment. Doing the Kilroy programme was an
attractive job, he said- and, crucially, 'the money is irresistible'.

The fact is that had Kilroy-Silk not been sacked by the BBC for colourfully
describing Arabs in a newspaper article as 'suicide bombers, limb amputators and
women repressors', he would not today be considering the leadership of the UK
Independence Party.

Instead, he would still be oleaginously sliding onto our TV screens five
mornings a week, earning upwards of Pounds 750,000 a year. That, plus around
another Pounds 50,000 he privately boasted to friends he was earning by taking
people to and from the TV studio in his own taxi service.

Politicians don't make that kind of money, but there is little doubt that this
ultimate opportunist - who emerged from a slum back-to-back home in Birmingham -
is now rich enough to support his ambitions for as long as it takes.

Nor, it seems, does he need to fear the sexual scandals that are always
threatening to destroy those politicians who, as in his case, are known
womanisers, since exposure of Kilroy-Silk's extramarital adventures - about
which more later have preceded his return to the political dustbowl.

Thus far, as he trains his lean, winning gaze - dripping in earnestness - on the
voters, nothing has been allowed to dull the gleam on this 62-year-old golden
boy.

But then, Kilroy-Silk oozes cuffshooting confidence, not only because of the
sharpness of his mind but also because of his heartthrob good looks.

'I've lived with it all my life - the effect I have on men and women,' he says.
'I would be the last to deny that my looks have opened doors for me.

People respond to me. They tend not to recoil if I touch them.

And I like to touch.' But his vanity doesn't end there.

Incredibly, there was a period in what he would doubtless describe as the
full-bloom of his handsomeness when he believed he was simply too good-looking
for politics.

One friend who casually asked him why he gave up politics in 1986, after 12
years as a Labour MP, revealed yesterday that he received this reply in total
seriousness: 'It became clear that I was too handsome to win at politics. I
would never have got any further. So TV was the perfect opportunity for me. On
TV people expect you to be handsome.' OLDER now, and beginning to lose his
matinee idol looks, Kilroy-Silk presumably feels comfortable enough to combine
his physical assurance with a ruthless ability to use his charm on unsuspecting
people (as the two million viewers who used to watch his programme can testify).

'Robert would not be involved if he didn't see a major prize at the end of it,'
declares an old friend, referring to Kilroy-Silk's UK Independence Party
leadership aspirations.

'He believes he has seized the moment to make himself a politician who must be
taken very seriously.' All the same, some colleagues fear they detect a 'touch
of the David Icke' about him. Icke was another handsome BBC presenter who went
into politics, declared himself the 'Son of Godhead' and finally became a New
Age guru. No-one took him very seriously, and eventually many considered the
poor chap quite mad, though no one suggests such a fate for Kilroy-Silk.

If anything is likely to stop Kilroy-Silk merely dabbling in public affairs like
Icke, it is his overarching vanity. He views the European issue as an open door
to his ambitions, and the timing of his demise at the BBC perfect for his
re-emergence as a political force.

'Robert is hugely egotistical and sees himself as never wrong,' says a long-time
colleague. 'For years, he has presented himself as a package which he believes
can win over practically anybody. As for his reputation with women, he sees that
as an advantage - you know, that sense of danger that women find attractive.
He's convinced there are votes in it.' Kilroy-Silk was born plain Robert Silk in
1942 to working class parents. His father, William, was killed during the war
while serving as a Royal Navy stoker. His mother, Rose, later married his
father's best friend, John Kilroy. YOUNG Robert was brought up in considerable
poverty, sharing an outside toilet with six other families and bathing in a tin
bath in front of the fire.

Although failing his 11-plus, he eventually found his academic feet and switched
to Saltley Grammar School in Birmingham. By the time he joined the local Labour
Party at 16, he was an idealist wanting to fight poverty and inequality.

He was also angry - ironically enough, as things turned out with those whose
ambitions were driven by money. He wrote a passionate anti-materialism poem,
part of which reads: So we rush madly on, to where No-one knows With the
expensive new house, the flashiest clothes The accent that cuts, and the air Of
a person, that's worldly and There!

He's arrived, Made, and successfully done it For what he's got, he's striven,
won it And there's an end to it all.

How hollow those words sound now that he has two large estates jointly worth
more than Pounds 5 million-one in Amersham, Bucks, which was built for one of
Queen Victoria's ladies-in-waiting, the other a 100-acre spread in the hills
above Marbella in Spain.

But, of course, as his circumstances have changed, so his politics have smoothly
switched to suit them.

He was once fairly hard-Left, lecturing on political theory at Liverpool
University. From there it was not difficult for him to make the jump into a safe
local Labour seat.

But today he expresses Rightwing, xenophobic views that are a million miles from
those early socialist days.

In 1992, he was forced to apologise for being 'gratuitously offensive and
racist' in describing Irish EC Commissioner Ray MacSharry as a 'redundant,
second-rate politician from a country peopled by peasants, priests and pixies'.

At other times, he has said that Pakistanis want to generate hate, that Germans
are 'truculent', the French 'devious' and the Spanish 'not to be trusted'.

Some people were surprised last year when Kilroy-Silk spoke up for a black
motorist who, he claimed, was being persecuted by police.

Later it emerged that the man was Kilroy-Silk's own chauffeur. It is all so very
different from the apparently thoughtful young politician whose journey to the
House of Commons after winning Ormskirk in 1974 was followed by fly-on-thewall
TV cameras.

He was 32-years-old, and confidently predicted that he would be Prime Minister
within 15 years. No longer was he plain Rob Silk, as in the early years, but the
impressive sounding Robert Kilroy-Silk, having stitched together the names of
his father and stepfather.

In fact, although he was briefly a Home Office front bench spokesman, the
'future PM's' career went nowhere - and when he left Parliament after 12 years
as an MP for Merseyside constituencies, he claimed it was because he could no
longer fight against the Militant Tendency extremists within the Labour Party.

Fellow Labour members, however, claimed that he had only talked of fighting
Derek Hatton's battalions, and in reality had done nothing to oppose them.

Certainly there was no mention by Kilroy-Silk at that time of the political
disadvantages of being too handsome.

Some still recall how Birmingham-born Kilroy-Silk's accent was surprisingly
Scouse while he was a Merseyside MP, but that it disappeared immediately
afterwards.

One friend recalled yesterday how, after he had become a TV star, he was asked
at a party why he invariably changed his accent to suit the person he was
talking to.

'I don't do that,' Kilroy-Silk protested.

His wife, Jan, instantly cut in: 'For God's sake, Robert, you do it every time.

Everybody knows it except you.' It was one of those moments when a wife sharply
calls an erring husband to order. Jan, whom he met while she was studying art at
Goldsmith's College, London, have been married for 41 years and have a grownup
son and daughter.

Jan plays the role of an 'Aga wife' who is as warm and stable as her husband is
selfobsessed and, at times, volatile.

Friends know that in those 41 years there have been other, private and much more
difficult moments which Jan has had to overcome.

It was while he was an MP that Kilroy-Silk began an affair with art teacher
Hilary Beauchamp, who bore him a son, Danny, now 19.

Although the father wasn't named on Danny's birth certificate, Hilary kept
documents showing that the MP paid her Pounds 200 a month for the first seven
years of Danny's life.

By the time the boy was 14, the TV star who advised the nation on parental
responsibility was exposed as never having set eyes on his son. THE boy was
living in a north London housing association flat with his mother, who had only
then managed to extract an offer of Pounds 750-amonth maintenance from the
multimillionaire presenter after an acrimonious legal exchange.

And yet, with timing exquisite in its hypocrisy, almost as their lawyers were
writing to each other, Kilroy-Silk and his private production company were
putting out a programme entitled My Father Let Me Down, and he was preaching at
the cameras: 'What kids need is love and affection, and their dad to be there
for them.' Quite.

Kilroy-Silk has also been known to chat up attractive women appearing on his
programme.

Model Elisha Scott, a former Penthouse 'Pet of the Month', disclosed how he
tried to persuade her to go to a hotel room with him. When she suggested a drink
in the bar, he explained that that was impossible because he was too well known.

Despite these hiccups the Kilroy-Silk marriage continues to be solid, according
to friends.

'Jan understands him,' says a family friend. 'She knows how much success means
to him.

Frankly, I think she'd quite like the status of being a party leader's wife.
She'll help him all she can.' Even with the admirable Jan's help, whether the
onetime political prodigy who talked of being Prime Minister will achieve his
goal via the UK Independence Party is another matter altogether.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: AMBITIOUS: KILROY-SILK AND HIS WIFE, JAN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              232 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 8, 2004

Howard vows to act like Thatcher over EU

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_SC2; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388 words


MICHAEL HOWARD invoked the spirit of Margaret Thatcher yesterday as he insisted
the Tories could block the creation of an EU superstate.

Under pressure from the UK Independence Party, the Tory leader said Baroness
Thatcher had blazed a trail by showing 'if you stand up for what you believe in,
you can get things done in Europe'.

With a poll indicating the UKIP could take a quarter of Conservative votes in
Thursday's European elections, Mr Howard promised to be just as resolute in
getting a good deal for Britain in the EU.

As Tory co-chairman Liam Fox denounced as 'simplistic' the UKIP's promise to
pull Britain out of Europe, Mr Howard insisted the right course for Britain was
to fight for British interests from inside the EU.

Addressing an election meeting in Bristol, he recalled Lady Thatcher's bruising
battle over the UK budget rebate.

'She was told that there was nothing that could be done about the fact Britain
paid more than her fair share of the total EU budget,' he said.

'People said to her, "You'll never get our money back from Europe".

'Well, she wasn't having that.

She said No. And look what happened Britain got her rebate, which is still being
paid to this day.' Mr Howard said he wanted a more flexible Europe in which
countries would be free to integrate with others if they wished, provided other
countries were not forced to do so.

'Saying no doesn't mean we would have to leave the EU just as we can say no to
the euro without leaving the EU,' he said. 'Saying no would send a clear message
to Europe: we want to control our lives, here in Britain.

'We don't want to be railroaded into handing over yet more power to Brussels.

' Conservative policy is simple. If some countries want to integrate more
closely, let them. But they cannot force Britain to join them if we don't want
to. And we will take back powers from Europe by tough negotiation just as we did
with the rebate.' If the Tories are bracing themselves for disappointing
European results, Labour is dreading Thursday's council polls where it faces the
loss of hundreds of seats.

Tony Blair said yesterday he would carry the can for this week's results. 'I am
Prime Minister. I always take responsibility. The buck stops with me and that's
part of the job.' Comment Page TEN

END

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              233 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  June 8, 2004

LABOUR AND TORIES REELING AS POLL FINDS 1 IN 5 WILL VOTE UKIP; WE'LL KICK EU IN
THE BALLOTS

BYLINE: by MACER HALL, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 215 words


A POLL signalling a massive swing to the UK Independence Party sent shockwaves
through Westminster last night.

It revealed nearly one in five voters could back the tiny anti-EU party on
Thursday.

And it sent a warning to Labour, the Tories and Lib Dems that the UKIP is out to
give them a kicking in the Euro elections.

In the YouGov poll, a quarter of Tory voters threatened to desert the party and
back the UKIP.

The poll gave Labour 26% with the Tories on 24%.

But the UKIP got 19%, knocking the Lib Dems into fourth on just 15%.

That would mean the UKIP, which wants Britain to quit the EU, could get up to 17
seats in Brussels.

The party is led by Roger Knapman and candidates include former chat-show host
Robert Kilroy Silk.

Tory leader Michael Howard dismissed claims the UKIP will hit the Tories.

But Mr Blair said his job could be on the line if Labour is humiliated.

And he pleaded with voters not to desert his party over the war in Iraq.

He said: "People do see a strong economy, they see the investment in public
services, but there is this Iraq issue hanging there.

"I still believe we did the right thing."

But last night the Tories dubbed him the "invisible man" because he has not
appeared in any Labour election broadcasts.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              234 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 08, 2004, Tuesday

Blair 'the invisible man' of election battle

BYLINE: By Toby Helm and George Jones

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 661 words

THE Tories mocked Tony Blair as "the invisible man" last night when he did not
appear in Labour's final party political broadcast before Thursday's European
and local elections.

They said he had become an "embarrassment" to his party, while Liberal Democrats
said his unpopularity over the Iraq war was causing his party real damage.

The Prime Minister's absence from last night's broadcast - there were no shots
or mentions of him - means that he has not appeared in any of the four peak-time
broadcasts during the most important electoral test Labour has faced since the
2001 general election.

His picture has been dropped from much of the campaign material in the regions
and the party has given his campaign visits an unusually low profile.

Mr Blair, who visited schools in the West Midlands yesterday to highlight the
Government's record on education, flies to America today for the G8 economic
summit. So he will be out of the country for the closing stages of the election
campaign.

By contrast, Michael Howard has been at the forefront of the Tory campaign,
crossing the country by helicopter for speeches and rallies.

The Tories said the decision not to feature Mr Blair, who until recently was
regarded by strategists as Labour's greatest electoral asset, showed that his
party now regarded him as a liability.

Liam Fox, the Tories' joint chairman, used the description "invisible man".

He said: "The absence of Tony Blair from any of Labour's election broadcasts
clearly shows that he is losing authority in his party and that they now regard
him as an embarrassment."

Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrats' campaign organiser, said it was
"extraordinary" that the Prime Minister was seen as such a vote loser that all
references to him had to be dropped.

Douglas Alexander, the Cabinet Office minister, denied that Mr Blair was being
kept out of the way, saying that he had given radio and television interviews
and had taken a "lead role" in the campaign. He said that Labour's campaign
should not be focused on individuals.

"It is not simply a judgment on one individual and one party; it is a choice
that communities face the length and breadth of the country."

Labour's final broadcast concentrated heavily on issuing warnings about the
damage it said the Tories would inflict on public services as a result of
spending cuts.

Mr Blair, in his final campaign appearances, appealed to voters not to let the
elections become a referendum on the war in Iraq. He said that public services,
not Iraq, should determine how people cast their votes.

"People do see a strong economy," he told GMTV. "They see the investment in the
public services but there is this Iraq issue hanging there."

Confronted with a poll of viewers which showed that 62 per cent thought he was
President George W Bush's "poodle", Mr Blair said: "In the end, the relationship
with America is of huge importance to this country and its security and indeed
its prosperity.

"It is not a question of doing what America says. It a question of genuinely
believing that, if we don't get out after this terrorist threat, at some time it
will come together with this threat from rogue states."

Asked if he was refusing to say sorry for the war, Mr Blair said: "I still
believe we did the right thing."

He promised to take personal responsibility for the outcome of the elections.

He said: "I am Prime Minister. I always take responsibility. The buck stops with
me and that is part of the job."

In the final Conservative election broadcast, to be broadcast tonight, Mr Howard
delivers a lengthy statement, looking straight into the camera, setting out the
case for saying no to Europe.

He makes no reference to the UK Independence Party, which wants to withdraw from
the EU, but invokes the spirit of Margaret Thatcher.

He says that she held out for British interests in Brussels and won, by securing
a rebate on the country's annual contribution to the EU budget.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              235 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 08, 2004, Tuesday

Howard's tactics 'may snatch Euro defeat from jaws of victory'

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News Pg. 09

LENGTH: 304 words

A TACTICAL misjudgment by Michael Howard appears to have precipitated a mass
mutiny by the Tory grassroots in the build-up to the European elections this
week, jeopardising a third of all Conservative seats in the European Parliament.

Tory activists and leaders of the UK Independence Party say that Mr Howard has
snatched defeat from the jaws of victory by opting for an alliance with the
European Parliament's most federalist bloc, the European People's Party. Its
manifesto backs the new European constitution and calls for obligatory
membership of the euro, a Euro-army, a European prosecutor and EU-wide taxation.

UKIP has surged to 21 per cent support among likely voters from 7.5 per cent in
1999 as the effects of this decision percolate through to the political grass
roots.

Played down as a minor "technical" issue by Conservative Central Office, the
decision has inflamed the Tory base, prompting party officials either to sit on
their hands or throw their support to UKIP. The Tory leadership insists that
ties to the people's party bloc gives them real clout over EU legislation.

Edward McMillan-Scott, MEP, who helped to negotiate entry into the people's
party in 1992, said: "We helped to push through the single market and opened up
Europe to cheap air travel." But the message has fallen on deaf ears in the Tory
shires.

Nigel Farage, one of UKIP's three serving MEPs, said: "Tory activists are so
disgusted they're refusing to campaign and lots of those trudging the streets
for us are Tories." Privately, Tory MEPs admit the party has been badly scalded
by the issue. "I am being deluged with letters from loyal members saying, 'I'm
not going to lift a finger to help you'," one said.

"For every one who writes a letter, you can be pretty sure there are 20 or 30
more who feel the same way."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              236 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 08, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP threatens new schism in Tory ranks

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 09

LENGTH: 479 words

THE Tory truce on Europe was under increasing strain last night after
pro-European MPs appealed to Michael Howard to confront Eurosceptics with a
positive message about the benefits of Brussels.

With 48 hours to go before polling day, the Conservative Party leader found
himself pulled in opposite directions as MPs argued over how to head off a late
surge by the UK Independence Party.

There were fears that party unity on an issue that divided it for more than a
decade - until Iain Duncan Smith brokered a truce - could be destroyed if it
loses significant support to the anti-European Union UKIP in Thursday's
elections.

The Conservative Eurosceptic Right has accused Mr Howard of being too tolerant
of federalists in Brussels and of not saying clearly enough what he would do
restore British sovereignty.

In turn, Europhile MPs have pressed him not to repeat what they say was William
Hague's mistake, when he scored gains in the 1999 Euro-elections on a robust
anti-European platform, only to lose the following general election.

Ian Taylor, the former minister who chairs the Tory European Network, urged Mr
Howard to stress the "positive" aspects of British membership of the EU. "Indeed
we need to highlight the many elements of the proposed constitution that will
enhance the position of nations like Britain and the effectiveness of the EU as
a whole," he said.

"The way to undermine UKIP is to persuade the British people of the virtues of
EU membership. It is time we started."

David Curry, the former minister who stood down from the shadow cabinet earlier
this year, called on Mr Howard to confront the UKIP rather than compete for its
votes by portraying Britain's relations with the EU as a long battle against
"foreign hordes".

He said: "When it comes to the general election, Europe is a long way down the
list of people's priorities. Therefore our priorities should be to go into the
general election with the policies that address people's real concerns."

The results of private polling and focus groups presented to Tory MPs last month
found that only two per cent of all voters listed Europe as their greatest
preoccupation.

Mr Howard has sought to position himself at the centre between what he says are
two extremes: the UKIP, which wants Britain to withdraw from the EU, and Labour
and the Liberal Democrats, which want to see Britain integrated further into the
EU's structures, including the single currency.

Yesterday he invoked Margaret Thatcher's battle to secure the rebate on
Britain's annual contribution to the EU as an example of what a Conservative
prime minister willing to say no could achieve with a tough approach to
negotiations.

Dr Liam Fox, the Tory co-chairman, accepted that pulling out of Europe was an
"intellectually legitimate" position but insisted it was "simplistic" and not in
the national interest.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              237 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 08, 2004, Tuesday

Euro sound bite chamber

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 160 words

SIR - The suggestion that "UKIP-istes", as the normally admirable Boris Johnson
calls us, are "so hard-line that they refuse even to take part in the debates"
in the European Parliament is completely wrong (Comment, June 3).

My website lists the many speeches I have made in the parliament. I have used
every speech as an opportunity to speak up for Britain. However, to call them
"debates" is pushing it, as we are usually limited to 90 seconds.

As to Boris's "commonsensical Tories", I was one of the initiators of a recent
motion of censure against the European Commission for its failure to take
responsibility for pounds 3 million worth of fraud in Eurostat, its statistical
arm. All but six Tories refused to sign it and, when it came up for voting in
the parliament, all the non-signatories abstained. The Tories are not the
solution to Britain's European troubles; they are part of the problem.

Jeffrey Titford MEP (UKIP)

Chelmsford, Essex

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              238 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 08, 2004, Tuesday

Tories spring electoral surprise

BYLINE: By CHARLIE METHVEN

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 21

LENGTH: 124 words

With daily headlines about Euro-sceptics defecting to the UK Independence Party,
you'd have thought the Tories would have been touring the television studios and
pounding the streets. Maybe some were. But not Richard Spring, shadow minister
for Europe, who decided that it was an apposite time to take a trip to, er,
Syria.

"With the election only days away, the Middle East was a slightly strange
choice," says one Westminster source sternly. "It's not as if there are many
UK-registered voters out there."

The mystery was compounded when I called Spring's press spokesman at Central
Office. "I don't know where Richard is," she said, as if amazed that I should
want to know. "We don't have a schedule of where everyone is, you know."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              239 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 8, 2004

HOWARD: I'M AS TOUGH AS MRS T ON EURO ISSUES

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 342 words


TORY Party leader Michael Howard yesterday made an eleventh hour appeal to
Eurosceptic voters, promising to be as tough as Margaret Thatcher over Europe.

He spoke out as polls showed the UK Independence Party is set to snatch a third
of Tory voters in this week's European elections.

The YouGov results sent jitters around Conservative central office with the
party's vote set to tumble from 36 per cent - when William Hague was leader - to
only 24 per cent.

Mr Howard attempted to win back grassroots support by invoking the spirit of
former Prime Minister Mrs Thatcher for party activists in Bristol. He said: "She
was told that there was nothing that could be done about the fact that Britain
paid more than her fair share of the total EU budget. People said to her 'You'll
never get our money back from Europe'.

"Well she wasn't having that. She said no. And look what happened, Britain got
her rebate, which is still being paid to this day. People said the same sort of
thing to us about the euro. They told us 'If you don't join, you won't survive
on your own'. We didn't accept that. The Conservatives, again, said no. The
truth is if you stand up for what you believe in, you can get things done in
Europe.

"Britain should start by saying no to the Constitution."

But some senior Tory MPs criticised Mr Howard's position on Europe. Former
minister David Curry warned his stance was "miles from the mark" and blamed both
the Tories and Labour for Ukip's success. "It is essential that the Conservative
Party confronts Ukip and does not try to compete with Ukip for the Eurosceptic
vote, " he said.

Ian Taylor, head of the Tory Europe Network, warned:

"Where we want change, we need to find friends and allies, not invent
hostility."

Ukip - which advocates Britain's complete withdrawal from the EU - has stunned
political observers with its success. The YouGov poll put Labour at 26 per cent,
with the Conservatives on 24 per cent. Ukip at 19 per cent has pushed the Lib
Dems into fourth place on 15 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              240 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 8, 2004

PLEDGE AS UKIP THREATENS TO GRAB QUARTER OF TORY VOTE; HOWARD: I'M AS TOUGH AS
MRS T ON EURO ISSUES

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words


TORY leader Michael Howard yesterday made an eleventh hour appeal to Eurosceptic
voters, promising to be as tough as Margaret Thatcher over Europe.

Mr Howard spoke out as polls showed the UK Independence Party is set to snatch a
quarter of Tory supporters in this week's European elections.

The YouGov results sent jitters around Conservative central office with the
party's vote set to tumble from 36 per cent - when William Hague was leader - to
only 26 per cent.

Mr Howard attempted to win back his grassroot supporters by invoking the spirit
of former Prime Minister Mrs Thatcher for party activists in Bristol.

He said: "She was told that there was nothing that could be done about the fact
that Britain paid more than her fair share of the total EU budget.

People said to her 'You'll never get our money back from Europe'. Well she
wasn't having that. She said no. And look what happened, Britain got her rebate,
which is still being paid to this day.

"People said the same sort of thing to us about the euro. They told us 'If you
don't join, you won't survive on your own'. We didn't accept that. The
Conservatives, again, said no. The truth is if you stand up for what you believe
in, you can get things done in Europe.

Britain should start by saying no to the Constitution."

But a couple of senior Tory MPs criticised Mr Howard's position on Europe.
Former minister David Curry warned his stance was "miles from the mark" and
blamed both the Conservatives and Labour for Ukip's success. "It is essential
that the Conservative Party confronts Ukip and does not try to compete with Ukip
for the Eurosceptic vote, " he said. "Both the Labour Government and the
Conservative Party have only themselves to blame to some extent for what is
happening with Ukip."

Tory MP Ian Taylor, head of the Tory Europe Network, warned: "We can all be
critical of the EU from time to time but in a constructive manner because we
want it to succeed in delivering benefits to our citizens. Where we want change,
we need to find friends and allies, not invent hostility."

Ukip - which advocates Britain's complete withdrawal from the EU - has stunned
political observers with its success. The YouGov poll put Labour at 26 per cent
with the Conservatives on 24 per cent. Ukip at 19 per cent has pushed the Lib
Dems into fourth on 15 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              241 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 8, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; TIME FOR HOWARD TO GET TOUGH

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 179 words


THE TORIES are already making excuses for what is likely to be a humiliating
European election performance. But they have no one to blame but themselves.

They have underestimated people's hatred and suspicion of the EU. In particular
Michael Howard should not have suggested that he believed that the UK
Independence Party was made up of cranks and gadflies. By scorning the party he
was also alienating Tory supporters considering transferring their allegiance to
the Ukip. Mr Howard should be taking on the concerns of the voters, not
insulting their judgment.

Most people do not want to be part of a federal Europe controlled by a
bureaucracy riddled with corruption and petty-mindedness. We want to rule
ourselves. Mindful of the differences in his party over the EU, Mr Howard has
been pussyfooting instead of giving a clear lead.

This is a grave mistake that allows a minority one-issue party such as the Ukip
to gather support quickly.

Mr Howard says he will now get as tough as Margaret Thatcher over Europe.

He had better mean what he says.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              242 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 8, 2004

LEADER - SUCCESS IN BIG SOCCER TOURNAMENTS HAS ALWAYS BEEN GOOD NEWS FOR NUMBER
10; WILL BECKS AND CO DO THE TRICK FOR TONY IN EURO 2004?

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN Political Editor

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 787 words


TONY Blair has always professed to be a football nut. He has protested loudly
his allegiance to Newcastle United, played head tennis with Kevin Keegan and
swapped leadership tips with Sir Alex Ferguson.

He called for the sacking of Glenn Hoddle as England manager because of his
views on disabled people and has had his spin doctors set up a photo-call of him
watching a big England match on a sofa with Gordon Brown and some tinnies.

It is, of course, a load of old bull. The PM has a passing knowledge of football
but is in no sense a serious fan. His favourite game is, in fact, tennis of the
lawn variety.

But of one thing you can be certain. He will be roaring England on during Euro
2004 with all the fervour of a genuine footballing diehard.

For this is a Prime Minister who is desperate to escape from the twin shadows of
global terrorism and the war in Iraq which have loomed so large over his second
term. He is frantically searching for the long-lost feelgood factor and a corner
of a foreign football field is as good a place as any to start.

Of the two Europe-oriented events taking place on Sunday night - the European
election results and England v France - it is not fanciful to suppose the latter
will exercise the PM more.

He already knows Labour will do badly in the elections and that the UK
Independence Party will steal the headlines. And he also knows that at least
three times as many people will follow England's progress as will vote to elect
an MEP.

The English rugby union team's victory at their World Cup perked the whole of
England up a bit. But it was a triumph in a minority sport which touches the
lives of relatively few voters.

Equally the current progress of the England cricket team hardly registers on the
popular consciousness.

But the evidence of the English people's obsession with the fortunes of their
national football team is all around us.

Flags of St George hang from windows and balconies and fly from the aerials of
vehicles.

Manufacturers can barely keep pace with demand. Almost every newspaper has
produced its own "definitive" guide to Euro 2004.

Were England to win the tournament, or even reach the final, a tidal wave of
euphoria would break across the land. The grim news from Iraq, those warnings
about the terrorist threat, the disappointment over nondelivery on public
services and the annoyance at Labour spin would all, for a while at least, be
set aside.

Mr Blair came to office on such a wave of euphoria at the start of the long, hot
summer of 1997. The country basked in a "Cool Britannia" buzz and Vanity Fair
magazine declared London to be the hippest city in the world. He cashed in by
inviting Noel Gallagher and assorted other luminaries of the movement to drinks
at No10.

It was a moment that aped Harold Wilson's determination to be at the thick of it
when the Beatles got their gongs. As a keen student of political history, Mr
Blair will also know how Wilson exploited England's 1966 World Cup triumph for
all it was worth.

EXPERIENCE also tells us that England's performance at major international
football tournaments is a pretty accurate indicator of the fortunes of the
nation as a whole.

In the swinging Sixties we were top dogs. But in the desolate Seventies, England
did not even qualify for a single tournament (we were at the 1970 World Cup
automatically as holders).

The team's dire under-achievement coincided with the decade of power cuts, the
three-day week, Cod Wars, rising unemployment and the winter of discontent.

There was a modest footballing recovery in the Thatcher years, with a
respectable first appearance in a World Cup finals for 12 years, in 1982, coming
hard on the heels of victory in the Falklands. England did even better in the
World Cups of 1986 and 1990 as the Thatcherite revolution really kicked in.

But as Maggie was replaced by John Major, so was Sir Bobby Robson by Graham
Taylor and the rot set in again. England did not qualify for the 1994 World Cup
and the Tories were already a write-off by Euro '96.

Under Blair, England made a promising start in France '98 with a heroic defeat
in the best game of the tournament. But we had lost our way by Euro 2000.

During the 2002 World Cup, Downing Street became obsessed with cashing in on
England's early success and rashly promised a reception to the team shortly
before it was knocked out with embarrassing ease by 10-man Brazil.

This time many good footballing judges believe our boys have a real chance of
glory. The impact of a tournament victory could prove immense.

It would brighten the lives of millions. But for Tony Blair it could offer a
chance to go back to the future.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              243 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 8, 2004

Howard turns to Thatcher as Tories get poll jitters

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 582 words


Michael Howard yesterday invoked the memory of Margaret Thatcher in an attempt
to burnish his Eurosceptic credentials after the Conservative truce over Europe
shattered days before "Super Thursday's" round of elections.

In a sign of panic in Tory ranks at the threat posed by the United Kingdom
Independence party, Mr Howard pledged to revive the spirit of Britain's most
prominent Eurosceptic - whose tough negotiations won a famous battle over the
British rebate - and some Tory MEPs openly admitted for the first time that they
are losing votes to Ukip.

An opinion poll in today's Times predicts that Labour and the Tories face a
tough time in the elections. According to the Populus survey, Conservative
support in the European elections could fall from 36% in 1999 to 24%, with many
of their votes going to Ukip (13%). Labour support has slipped from 28% in 1999
to between 25-26%, with the Liberal Democrats polling between 16-18%.

With only two days of campaigning left, the Tories charged Labour with running a
negative campaign, with its claim that Mr Howard would cut public spending by
£18bn, at the cost of tens of thousands of public sector jobs. Although Tony
Blair spent the day campaigning in the West Midlands, Labour officials kept him
out of their final party election broadcast, prompting Tory claims that the
party is ashamed of its currently unpopular leader.

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats seized on further signs of chaos in the postal
ballot, with Bolton council admitting that 9,000 ballot papers sent to Royal
Mail last week had gone missing. Lord Rennard, the Lib Dem strategist, held out
the prospect of court challenges leaving the political control of councils in
doubt for months. But the bulk of the political attention again fell on Tory
internal divisions, as battle resumed for the first time in years between the
party's warring camps over Europe.

Roger Helmer, a Tory MEP, triggered it with a call on the Guardian Unlimited
website for Mr Howard to embrace a far more Eurosceptic approach on Europe. Mr
Helmer, facing a strong challenge from Ukip's Robert Kilroy-Silk in his East
Midlands constituency, wrote: "With only a couple of days to go to the election,
it is clear that Ukip will make gains that go far beyond anything we expected.
In the effort to keep a few dis tinguished Europhiles onside, we are letting
party activists and the public slip away. We need to repeal the 1972 European
Communities Act." The act gives European law precedence over British domestic
law.

Within hours the Tories' pro-European wing hit back. Ian Taylor, the former
minister who is chairman of the European Movement, said: "The Conservative
party's policy is not to withdraw from the EU. Therefore it is time we started
focusing on the positive aspects of our relationship with the EU."

In the Tories' final broadcast before Thursday's elections, to the sound of grim
music - and amid warnings that Mr Blair wants to take Britain into a "rather
frightening future European state" - Mr Howard will tonight embrace the Thatcher
approach.

The Cabinet Office minister, Douglas Alexander, claimed that Labour's campaign
had been balanced, although the Treasury financial secretary, Ruth Kelly,
acknowledged that the job cuts referred to in the party's final party political
broadcast were only "illustrations of the scale of the cuts that the country may
face".

Elections 2004, page 9

Zoe Williams, page 19

G2 cover story


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              244 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 8, 2004

G2: Smooth operator: Five months ago he was sacked from his long-running BBC TV
show for calling Arabs 'limb-amputators'. This week he could help a rightwing,
anti-immigration party to a remarkable European election result - while still
insisting he's not racist. Just who is Robert Kilroy-Silk? Nicholas Watt meets
the former Labour MP who, in a matter of weeks, has upset the delicate balance
of British politics

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 3002 words


With his permatan and carefully coiffured silver hair, which give him the look
of an ageing matinee idol, Robert Kilroy-Silk goes to great lengths to protect
his image. "What is your angle? You just want to show I'm a racist," he barks in
his unmistakable Brummie accent when I phone to ask whether it would be possible
to arrange an interview.

I say I merely want to hear from the man who appears single-handedly to have
hijacked Thursday's European elections. With opinion polls showing that his
United Kingdom Independence party (Ukip) could storm into third place,
Kilroy-Silk has become the plausible, and to some the heart-throbbing, face of a
party once dismissed as a bunch of rightwing cranks. "I do not need the
coverage," the former television star snorts. He tells me that most people have
already voted by post in his East Midlands constituency. "I do not seek
publicity."

On that grand note, his tone suddenly changes. I am summoned to appear
immediately at London's South Bank television studios where Kilroy-Silk has
taken up residence in the GMTV green room after an interview with another
small-screen heartthrob, Joan Bakewell. After an interminable wait, as he
becomes the first Ukip candidate to be grilled by an Israeli newspaper, I am
summoned into his presence by a regal wave of the hand.

Kilroy-Silk lolls back, arm stretched out to command the room, as he talks of
how he has transformed Ukip from a fringe party to a beast threatening to
overtake the Liberal Democrats. "I couldn't pronounce my party's name a few
weeks ago, and now every single person in the audience on Question Time was
talking about it the other night. Talk about establishing a brand."

Britain's political elite has certainly been given a jolt by the astonishing
surge in visibility of Ukip, which now appears to be on course to treble its
number of MEPs from the three elected last time in 1999. A combination of
growing hostility to Europe, intensified by the imminent signing of the EU
constitution, and resentment over touchstone issues such as asylum and
immigration have created a groundswell of support for a cleverly branded party
of the right.

Michael Howard is so concerned Ukip could eat into the Tory Eurosceptic vote
that last week he launched a determined attack on it, branding it "extremist" -
an unprecedented move against a fringe party. His decision, which guaranteed yet
more headlines for Ukip, came after a brainstorming session by senior Tories who
concluded that the recruitment of Kilroy-Silk had turned the party from a minor
irritant into a serious threat.

Kilroy-Silk, 62, who has been at something of a loose end since he was sacked by
the BBC in January after branding Arabs "limb-amputators" in his Sunday Express
column, is certainly relishing his return to the limelight. He was wooed into
the Ukip camp "by accident" only a few weeks ago over lunch in Spain by his old
friend, the Earl of Bradford, who is contesting Thursday's elections. Even Max
Clifford had a walk-on part, though Kilroy-Silk is highly sensitive to the
charge that the mischievous publicist orchestrated the exercise. "I spoke to him
once before I was nominated and I have not spoken to him since," he says.

After securing the top slot on the Ukip list of candidates in the East Midlands
by "acclamation", Kilroy-Silk is now the party's main face on posters and in
election broadcasts, funded by a £2m war chest. On Sunday he was the star
attraction at a publicity stunt in which a copy of the EU constitution was held
aloft within the shadow of Traitor's Gate at the Tower of London.

Scores of Ukip supporters, mostly pensioners and younger people dismissed by the
Tories as "gadflies", rushed to shake his hand. His mahogany tan deeper than
ever thanks to regular trips to his Spanish villa, Kilroy-Silk was putting into
practise the skills honed during 18 years presenting his daily BBC chatshow.
"Lovely to see you, didn't it go well," he said, laying his hands on the
shoulders of admiring women. "Yes we're doing well," he commented to one woman,
tapping her shoulder and using his intense blue eyes to fix her with a mildly
flirtatious gaze.

Amid the throng of Ukip supporters, Kilroy-Silk and his wife of 41 years, Jan,
stood out. Where the party faithful were bedecked with Ukip's purple and yellow
stickers and plastic union-flag hats, the Kilroy-Silks looked like immaculately
dressed continental politicians. No badges soiled his navy-blue linen jacket.

The easy manner was also on display when he confronted the "metropolitan elite"
at one of Ukip's regular press conferences last week, now starting to attract
heavyweight media attention. With two venerable political journalists - Sky's
Adam Boulton and Channel 4's Elinor Goodman - he initially adopted a chummy
first-names routine to show they are all old muckers from the world of telly.
But when they started to ask tough questions, such as why the Ukip promotes
rightwing policies on asylum, the menacing side of Kilroy-Silk appeared.

"This is sloppy journalism," he snapped at Boulton, one of Westminster's most
respected journalists, who had the audacity to question him about Ukip's pledge
to end "overcrowding" in Britain. Goodman, a popular figure who broke ground as
the first woman political editor in television, was wrongly taunted for being
older than him (she is in fact five years younger).

The snarl behind the smile comes as no surprise to some old acquaintances. There
are Labour MPs who have never forgiven Kilroy-Silk for the way he abandoned his
seat of Knowsley North in 1986 at the height of the party's bruising battle with
the Militant Tendency. As a rightwinger who held lavish parties at his grand
house in Burnham, Kilroy-Silk was an easy target for the Trotskyite group, which
launched a bitter and bloody battle to deselect him as the Labour candidate in
the seat he had held since 1974. The Labour high command, under the direction of
Neil Kinnock, piled resources into Merseyside to help him. The party's efforts
saved his neck, only for Kilroy-Silk to announce that he was leaving Westminster
to present his own television programme.

(Kilroy-Silk's lavish lifestyle was believed to be funded in his days as an MP
by regular media appearances and by a series of books and articles, but it
marked him out among Labour MPs. "We always wondered how he funded his
lifestyle. There was a joke that Robert had to go into telly to fund his house
and all the grand parties he had there," one former colleague said.)

Peter Kilfoyle, the former defence minister and MP for Liverpool Walton who, as
the Labour party's organiser on Merseyside, led the fight against Militant, is
scathing. "Robert Kilroy-Silk did not fight the good fight. He did not tell his
closest colleagues that he was leaving and left us with a very difficult
byelection. He has not changed. He was rightwing and he was also very
self-centred. He was focused on his own career."

Even his closest friend while at Westminster has little time for him now. Barry
Sheerman, the Labour MP for Huddersfield, invited Kilroy-Silk to be best man at
his wedding after they became friends as students at the London School of
Economics in the 1960s. "Bob is a law unto himself," he now says. "He has
elevated the lack of principle to an art form. I wouldn't have thought he
believed (in Ukip) any more than he believes in anything else. Bob is about Bob
Kilroy-Silk Promotions. He is very good at it. So I don't take any of his
politics seriously really. Well, I take his politics as seriously as he does."

Sheerman chuckles as he recalls his old friend's ambitions. "I remember saying
to him, did he en joy academic work when we both became university lecturers in
the same year. He said: 'Well, I'd really love a white Mercedes.' Bob tends to
move on. From academic life to parliamentary life, to television and to showbiz.
I don't think he is really interested in politics. He is interested in Bob
Kilroy-Silk and the money. He freely admits that. As he said to me when he went
into television: 'I am not into news or current affairs. I am into
entertainment. That is my business.'

"Bob irritates me immensely. But he is Robert Kilroy-Silk. He was bright and
good company. He is an energetic and dynamic character. There is no doubt he has
a lot of ability."

Every Labour MP I speak to says that their most vivid memory of Kilroy-Silk was
his appearance in a television documentary which filmed him after the February
1974 general election, travelling to Westminster as a dashing 31-year-old newly
elected MP. "Robert said in that strong Brummie accent: 'I want to be prime
minister in 15 years,'" Sheerman recalls. "He was very ambitious. The film
apparently got up the nose of Harold Wilson (then prime minister) a great, great
deal and put back his chances of any promotion at all for a long time."

"Robert has not done it yet, but you never know," notes Lord (Robin) Corbett, a
former Labour MP from Birmingham and another old friend. "He has always had a
high opinion of himself. Behind the flashing teeth and eyes was a very ruthless
politician."

Of all his Labour colleagues, Corbett takes a more charitable view of
Kilroy-Silk's decision to abandon Westminster. "I had sympathy with him over the
way he was treated by Militant. He went through hell in Knowsley. I do know that
he and Jan had a really miserable time over that. When the offer of that
(television) job came up, I think he saw that as a way back to sanity."

In particular areas, Corbett points out, Kilroy-Silk showed genuine political
commitment. "He was very brave on prison reform. There are no votes in that at
all but he stuck his neck out on that. I take my hat off to him on that. To be
fair to him, he prosecuted that with vigour."

As chairman of the all-party penal affairs group between 1979-86, he regularly
confronted Tory ministers on the "intolerable" conditions in Britain's prisons.
One civil servant became so weary of his incessant parliamentary questions that
she struck back with a Valentine, inscribed: "Roses are red/Violets are blue/I'm
fucked if I'll answer/another PQ." Kilroy-Silk is still on the council of the
Howard League for Penal Reform.

Corbett recalls another celebrated encounter in 1985 between the young MP and
the then prime minister. "He was impressive. He took a group of unemployed
youngsters from his constituency to see Mrs Thatcher. Normally you'd have
expected half of them and him to have been eaten by her. Far from it. I think he
charmed her. He charmed his way into Downing Street. He was brave. She
understood his smart good looks. She was probably sitting there wondering why he
was Labour."

What drives Robert Kilroy-Silk? The documentary maker Norma Percy heads a list
of friends who believe his relentless ambition can be explained by his early
background.

"The crucial thing about Robert is that he failed the 11-plus," says Percy,
another contemporary at LSE. "He clawed himself into grammar school in the sixth
form and got a 2:1 at the LSE. He was determined to succeed." His father,
William Silk, was lost at sea in 1943 within a year of his birth. His mother
Rose then married a car worker at the West Midlands Rootes plant, later British
Leyland, who adopted the young boy and gave him the first part of his
distinctive surname.

"Robert came from quite a poor working-class family," Sheerman says. "I met his
mother and his stepfather who adopted him. They were really wonderful people.
His mum was a formidable personality, she was fantastic."

To his friends, this background created a highly principled and ambitious young
man. Richard Shepherd, the independent-minded Conservative MP who studied with
Kilroy-Silk at the LSE and who became a friend at Westminster, has no truck with
critics. "It was an extraordinary struggle with the Militant Tendency. I thought
Robert was rather a good guy in that - in fact a precursor, in a sense, of
Blairism. His own personal story is a quite a touching one. I would say he is a
man of principle. It is a principle he is standing on."

Shepherd, a fierce Eurosceptic who used to give John Major grief over the
Maastricht treaty in the 1990s, admires Kilroy-Silk's decision to champion Ukip.
Pointing out that Kilroy-Silk campaigned for a no vote in the 1975 referendum on
remaining in what was then the EEC, he says: "Robert has always felt strongly
about the EU. (His support for Ukip) does reflect what the mainstream parties do
not reflect: a scepticism about the merits of the EU."

It is this lifelong opposition to Brussels that Kilroy-Silk cites when faced
with criticisms that he is unprincipled and has lurched to the right. Some of
the giants of today's Labour cabinet, he points out, campaigned with him for a
no vote in the 1975 referendum. "Why is it rightwing (to oppose British
membership of the EU)? If you analyse it, all the people who were in favour of
continuing (EEC membership) were rightwing. All the leftwingers (campaigning for
a no vote) were me, Neil Kinnock, Robin Cook, Jack Straw, Barbara Castle, Tony
Benn and Dennis Skinner. (Most) have joined what's-her-name, that silly woman .
. . Williams, Shirley Williams. All the Labour left, the Robin Cooks, the Jack
Straws, the John Prescotts and the Neil Kinnocks, have joined the rightwing
Social Democrats who split the Labour party, let Thatcher in for 13 years or
whatever it was and formed the SDP. Now they're all on the same gravy train. It
is extraordinary."

The bitter divisions of two decades ago, when the party famously fought the 1983
gen eral election on a manifesto described as the "longest suicide note in
history", are still raw memories for Kilroy-Silk, who speaks emotionally of his
decision to abandon Westminster. "It was a really nasty, acrimonious
atmosphere," he says of the battle with Militant. "It was that bad that
nationally they had to disband (my constituency) party when I resigned and it
remained disbanded for 10 years.

"It became difficult to be an MP. Decent, nice people would not turn to party
meetings because they were spat at, they were physically threatened, they were
abused, there was foul language. These were middle-aged ladies and car tyres
were slashed. You were left with the Militant few. You were censured if you
supported official Labour party policy."

Relations with his former comrades have warmed, though. Only last week he was
seen joking at a charity event with Straw. But he can't resist a dig. "I was on
the same side as Jack Straw in 1975. I remember what their views were. Mine
haven't changed. They've gone to the right. And I've stayed. On this I still
believe what I believed then."

So, just as it is his former comrades who deserve the description of being
rightwingers, it is unjust, he maintains, to accuse Ukip of flirting with the
far right by pledging to free Britain from "overcrowding". "I want a decent,
civilised immigration and asylum policy. I want us to be compassionate and
hospitable to anybody who is in genuine fear of their lives, or torture, or
persecution. Those people have to be welcomed. We put our arms round them, we
cuddle them and we look after them properly. But we do not have any obligation
to take people who are not genuine asylum seekers, nor does any other country.
On immigration, I want a civilised immigration policy. I want people to be able
to come here, to welcome them where they are going to work, where there are
jobs, where they are needed. If they are going to become British citizens I want
them to be integrated in the community."

Such sentiments sit oddly next to Ukip's official policy to offer "freedom from
overcrowding". One of the party's five manifesto pledges reads: "The UK
population at 60 million is higher than ever before. We live on a small island.
Our cities are overcrowded, our roads clogged up and our railways are grinding
to a halt. Our doctors' surgeries cannot cope and the hospital waiting lists are
growing. New housing estates are covering the countryside. In 2002, the UK
government allowed in another 200,000 people. The UK Independence party will put
an end to mass immigration."

Asked how he can reconcile the two positions, Kilroy-Silk immediately distances
himself from his new party. "I am talking about my position. I am speaking for
myself. I am not going to say or do anything ever again I don't want to say or
do. My position is quite clear."

Such dismissive remarks give a taste of what is in store for Ukip if, as he
hinted over the weekend, he attempts to dislodge Roger Knapman as its leader
after the European elections. Kilroy-Silk has an absolute certainty which leads
him to dismiss his party's official policies with the same ease with which he
shrugs off the "metropolitan elite".

Inevitably, his own position, as he sees it, could not be more different. His
convictions stem from the unique position, he says, of having rubbed shoulders
with the 250,000 people who passed through his television studio over 18 years.
"They came from all backgrounds, all ages, all races, colours, creeds, from all
parts of the country. I think I've been in touch. This is the point of standing
and giving people a voice. You can't have in this country any more a reasonable,
decent conversation about immigration without running the risk of being labelled
a racist. That is awful.

"This is what I picked up from my show a long time before I stood: that people
were angry. They say to me things like: 'Am I allowed to say that, can I say
that, is it OK?' This is good, decent, law-abiding people scared to speak their
mind. That has got to stop."

"He was tough and bullied people," says one former TV researcher, not afraid to
speak their mind but reluctant, all the same, to be named. "But working on
Kilroy is good for your CV - if you can survive him, you can survive anything."
Ukip's leaders may soon be entertaining the same thought.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              245 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

TORY DISARRAY OVER EUROPE

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Michael Howard: Caught in the crossfire Toby Madden

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 576 words


THE CONSERVATIVE Party's campaign for Thursday's European and local elections
was in disarray last night as its dormant divisions over Europe erupted in
public again.

Michael Howard was caught in the crossfire as Tory Europhiles accused him of
running a negative anti-Brussels campaign and a Tory member of the European
Parliament endorsed the policy of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP)
to repeal the 1972 Act of Parliament that took Britain into the EU.

The in-fighting eclipsed an attempt by Mr Howard to stem an apparent haemorrhage
of Tory support to UKIP by recalling how Margaret Thatcher fought Britain's
corner in Europe. In a speech in Bristol, the Tory leader said that saying "no"
to the EU did not mean withdrawing from it, as UKIP advocates.

Citing Baroness Thatcher's campaign to win a rebate on Britain's EU budget
contributions, Mr Howard said: "She was told that there was nothing that could
be done about the fact that Britain paid more than her fair share of the total
EU budget. People said to her, You'll never get our money back from Europe.'
Look what happened: Britain got her rebate, which is still being paid to this
day.

"People said the same sort of thing to us about the euro. They told us: If you
don't join, you won't survive on your own.' We didn't accept that. The
Conservatives, again, said no. The truth is, if you stand up for what you
believe in, you can get things done in Europe."

His attempt to steady Tory nerves was overshadowed when Roger Helmer, a
Eurosceptic MEP, called for Britain to seek "associate membership" of the EU. He
called the rise of UKIP "an historic development, a seismic change" and a
"wake-up call" for the Tories. Mr Helmer said: "The party leadership has been
trying to bridge the gap between the old dinosaurs - Clarke and Heseltine - and
the vast bulk of the members and activists. But in the effort to keep a few
distinguished Europhiles onside, we are letting party activists and the public
slip away."

Later he was forced by the Tory high command to clarify his remarks, saying:
"People should vote Conservative on 10 June. I do not support withdrawal from
the European Union. I am advocating a more open and flexible relationship for
Britain in the EU."

Tory Europhiles warned that the party leadership had played into UKIP's hands by
giving the impression that Britain was continuously under threat from Brussels.
Ian Taylor, a former minister and close ally of Kenneth Clarke, said the Tories
should start to focus on the positive aspects of EU membership. He said: "We
imply that it is us versus that lot over there'. If that's the case, then the
only logical conclusion is that we should withdraw ... The way to undermine UKIP
is to persuade the British people of the virtues of EU membership."

The divisions also blunted a Tory attack on Tony Blair for being the "invisible
man" of the Labour campaign. Mr Howard has featured in all four Labour
broadcasts while Mr Blair has not appeared, fuelling Tory claims of a negative
campaign by Labour.

w Labour and the Tories are facing their worst performances ever at the European
and local elections, according to a poll conducted by Populus for The Times. The
parties could secure no more than half the total votes cast and turnout could be
as little as a third, the poll suggests. The poll predicts that the Tories and
Labour will jointly receive votes from just one in six adults.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              246 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS: BATTLE FOR BRITAIN'S EUROSCEPTIC HEART DOMINATES CAMPAIGNING

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE AND MARIE WOOLF

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1489 words


THE ELECTIONS on "Super Thursday" this week will provide the biggest test of
public opinion between general elections. There will be elections in 166
councils in England and Wales and for the London Mayor, but the only contest in
which everyone in the United Kingdom will have a vote will be for the European
Parliament.

In the last such poll five years ago only one-in-four registered voters bothered
to turn out and a similar figure is expected on Thursday. The Tories then
mobilised their supporters and won 36 seats, Labour 29, the Liberal Democrats
10, the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) three, and the Green Party,
Scottish National Party and Plaid Cymru two each. In Northern Ireland, the
Democratic Unionist Party, Ulster Unionist Party and Social Democratic and
Labour Party each won one seat.

The number of UK seats has been cut from 87 to 78 and the parties will be keen
to match or exceed their share of the vote last time, when the Tories won 36 per
cent, Labour 28, the Liberal Democrats 13, UKIP 7, and the Greens 6. The main
runners have set out their stands:

LABOUR

Labour has said little about Europe, preferring to run a mini-general election
campaign on what it regards as the party's natural territory of public services
and the Government's record since 1997. The person who has featured most in
Labour's election broadcasts is Michael Howard, as the party attacks his record
as a minister and says that the Tories would cut spending by pounds 18bn.

Tony Blair's most significant move on Europe came before the campaign, when he
made a surprise pledge to hold a referendum on the proposed EU constitution.
Although designed mainly to neutralise the Europe issue at the next general
election, the move has also taken the wind out of the Tories' sails in these
elections, as they had intended to campaign hard for a referendum.

Labour strategists believe a strong showing by UKIP will harm the Tories more
than Labour, although the anti-EU party could appeal to some working-class
traditional Labour supporters. "UKIP are the cavalry that could ride to our
rescue," one Labour source admitted. However, in the long run UKIP's success may
make it even harder for Mr Blair to win a constitution referendum. Labour aides
insist, however, that it might make the task easier, enabling the Government to
portray the choice as being "in or out".

Expectations for Labour are low since, unlike the Tories, they did poorly in the
most recent European election. To slip further back would, however, be an
embarrassment, and would inevitably revive the debate about how long Mr Blair
should remain Prime Minister.

CONSERVATIVES

Tories had reasons to be cheerful about the prospects for Mr Howard's first test
at the ballot box since becoming the party's leader, but the unexpectedly strong
showing in the opinion polls by UKIP has derailed the campaign and reopened the
party's long-standing divisions over Europe.

Despite his own Eurosceptic instincts, Mr Howard has resisted calls for him to
match UKIP's hardline stance.

Although this worked for William Hague at the European elections in 1999, he
failed spectacularly when he played the "Europe card" at the following general
election. So Mr Howard is playing a longer game, anxious not to turn off
professionals who dislike anti-European rhetoric.

He has adopted a middle way between Labour, who he accuses of selling out
Britain's interests by never saying "no" to Europe, and UKIP's policy of
withdrawal.

In a party election broadcast tonight, the Tory leader will say: "People are
telling us you've either got to sign up to everything that comes out of Europe
or give up altogether. Well they are wrong. There is an alternative ... We'll
make clear that not every country has got to sign up to everything that comes
out of Europe."

Tory officials denied that the broadcast was a reaction to UKIP but the fact
that they needed to issue the denial illustrates how the Tory campaign has been
defined by the anti-European party.

The Tory leader's line has come under increasing pressure from his party's pro-
and anti-European wings. Some Eurosceptics want Mr Howard to show his true
colours to eclipse UKIP. A YouGov poll published yesterday showed that the
Tories were most vulnerable to a UKIP advance, with 25 per cent of Tory
supporters saying they will defect to UKIP, compared with 5 per cent of Labour
supporters and 4 per cent of Liberal Democrats.

David Curry, a former Tory minister and a pro-European, said: "The party will
get nowhere by competing with UKIP; it needs to contest it, challenge it and
confront it."

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

The Liberal Democrats have been stung by predictions that they could come in
fourth place behind UKIP. Charles Kennedy, their leader, said he expected the
party to keep the seats held by their 10 MEPs and probably gain a few more. He
has defended his decision to fight the election on the Government's policy on
Iraq, while playing down the euro, and urged voters not to believe the polls.

The YouGov poll put the Liberal Democrats on 15 per cent of the total vote,
behind UKIP's 19 per cent. The party has been polling below its usual national
vote, which has consistently exceeded 20 per cent.

Private polling has convinced the party that it has up to 20 per cent of the
vote in some areas and a larger share of the vote than five years ago, when the
party only gained 12.7 per cent. The last European elections were a high water
mark for the Liberal Democrats, mainly because of the introduction of
proportional representation in 1999. Before then, the party only had two MEPs
because it found it hard to beat Labour and the Tories in a first-past-the-post
race.

Lord Rennard, the party's director of campaigns and strategy, was confident
yesterday, however. "Our minimum target is to get 10 MEPs and we hope to make
gains in the North West, North East, London and the South West," he said.

Mr Kennedy will make a last push today by stressing again the achievements that
he says have been made in Brussels on protecting the environment, including
progress in combating global warming.

UNITED KINGDOM INDEPENDENCE PARTY

The surprise package of the campaign has been UKIP, which won three seats at the
European elections five years ago but has not enjoyed a high profile since. A
well-funded effort and celebrity backers such as Robert Kilroy- Silk and Joan
Collins have enabled it to set the agenda.

Its simple message of withdrawing from the EU has made the party a natural
vehicle for Eurosceptics and voters wishing to lodge a protest vote without
changing the government. Its advance in the opinion polls has been remarkable.
According to YouGov, among those "very likely" to vote on Thursday, UKIP is on
21 per cent, breathing down the neck of both Labour (24) and the Tories (26) and
ahead of the Liberal Democrats (6).

The survey suggests the Tories' attempt to dismiss UKIP as "extremists",
"cranks" and "gadflies" may have backfired. If the poll proves accurate, the
party could win between 13 and 17 seats on Thursday. Five Tory peers publicly
supported UKIP, four of whom had the party whip withdrawn.

The party insists it is not anti-European, but opposed to British membership of
the EU which, it claims, "stifles our initiative and threatens our freedom". It
says the EU has become increasingly bureaucratic and corrupt, as well as a drain
on the UK's resources. Britain's influence is shrinking as the EU expands, it
argues.

OTHER PARTIES

The Green Party is polling 6 per cent of the vote and is confident that its
support will return them six MEPs - an increase of four on their tally of two.
The party has capitalised on anti-Iraq feeling, but also on the emergence of
Euroscepticism as a political force. Spencer Fitzgibbon, a member of the Green
Party executive, said the rise in support for UKIP was benefiting the Greens.
"There are lots of people who are Eurosceptic but won't vote for a right wing
party. We are sceptical about Europe but not xenophobic," he said.

The BNP, on around 5 per cent of the vote, has been exploiting unease about
asylum policy with leaflets stoking up fears about immigration to the UK.
Support for the extreme-right party appears to have waned and its only prospect
for its first European seat is in the North-west, where the party's leader, Nick
Griffin, is standing.

George Galloway's Respect Coalition is fighting its first political battle. The
maverick MP, who was thrown out of the Labour Party last year, has tapped into
the strength of feeling generated by the UK anti- war movement.

The coalition, which includes the hard left Socialist Workers Party and the
Muslim Association of Britain, is proposing an "end to the occupation of Iraq,
scrapping tuition fees" and renationalising public services. But support is
hardly registering in the polls.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              247 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

ELECTIONS: BLAIR'S NIGHTMARE COULD BECOME HOWARD'S REALITY

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 635 words


THE EUROPEAN elections were supposed to have been a nightmare for Tony Blair.
But it is Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, for whom the results could
yet prove to be a bad dream come true.

When the last European elections were held five years ago, Mr Blair's government
was riding high in the polls. But those days are no more. Labour's share of
general election voting intentions is, on average, 14 percentage points lower
than it was before the 1999 European elections.

But claims that Labour was bound, therefore, to receive a drubbing in this
year's European elections were always wide of the mark, for one simple reason.
Despite riding high in the polls, Labour managed to do terribly five years ago.
The party won just 28 per cent of the vote, as bad a performance as old Labour
managed under Michael Foot in 1983. The problem in 1999, however, was that many
Labour voters simply stayed at home. A 14-point drop from that level is simply
inconceivable in 2004. Moreover, Labour has taken some astute steps to shore up
its position.

First, all postal ballots are occurring in four English regions, and these
regions happen to be Labour's four strongest outside London. So, if the decision
to hold the European elections by post raises the turnout - as previous
experiments suggest it will - it will help boost Labour's share of the
nationwide vote even if it doesn't boost its share of the vote in the four
regions.

Second, the Government postponed the local and London Assembly elections, due to
be held last month, so that they would coincide with the European elections.
More local council elections are due to be held in urban Labour Britain than in
rural Conservative Britain. So if the chance to vote for their local councillor
attracts voters who would not bother with a purely European election - as
history suggests should happen - that will also bring more Labour than
Conservative voters to the polls. It could even help Labour to hang on to one or
two seats.

Even so, one other change will mean that Labour could lose seats even if it
doesn't lose a single vote. This change is a cut in the number of British MEPs
from 87 to 78. Four of the nine seats that will disappear are ones that Labour
won in 1999.

So despite Labour's best efforts and its weak legacy, modest losses appear
inevitable. The two polls that have attempted to measure how people might vote
on Thursday, compared with what they would do in a general election, suggest
that Labour's vote will fall. But they suggest that the drop will be closer to 4
percentage points than 14.

That means that Labour will have swung to a new low - less than a quarter of the
vote. It would be worse that the performance recorded by the Tories in the 1994
European elections and might suggest a deep dissatisfaction with Mr Blair's
government.

All of which should be good news for Mr Howard. But one of the messages of
recent opinion polls is that whatever dissatisfaction there is with Labour,
there is little enthusiasm for the Conservatives.

And voters have long since decided that they can do far more in European
elections than simply choose between Labour and the Conservatives. In 1999, for
example, one in five voted for parties that were unrepresented in the House of
Commons, with UKIP leading the pack on 7 per cent.

At least in European elections the opposition cannot win votes simply because
the government is unpopular: it has to have a positive appeal of its own. The
Conservatives apparently lack that appeal. Votes that the Tories hoped to win
now look as though they might drift to UKIP, who could win as much as 20 per
cent of the vote. Europe, it seems, is set to cause the Conservatives grief once
more.

John Curtice is a professor of politics at Strathclyde University.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              248 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

JUST WHEN THE POLITICIANS THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE - EUROPE IS BACK ON THE AGENDA;
 THE EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1180 words


Once more the issue of Europe is reshaping the British political map, changing
the destinies of parties and the prospects of the poor powerless individuals
that lead them. As far as British politics is concerned Europe is the equivalent
of a mesmerising wizard: Close your eyes, open them again and everything looks
different.

Only a few weeks ago Michael Howard expected to take a modest bow at the end of
this week's election campaign. Now it seems that a significant section of his
potential support will head for the United Kingdom Independence Party. Labour
leaders are rubbing their hands with glee, having deprived the Tories of their
most valuable electoral ammunition, their demand for a referendum on the EU
constitution. This short-term gain leaves Labour with a problem, too. Promising
a referendum is the easy bit. Fighting it will be the problem. They cannot avoid
a campaign this time as they have done with the euro. Europe is back and no one
in British politics can feel safe as they wonder nervously what will happen
next, what will be different the next time they close and open their eyes.

Not that Europe has really gone away. The Conservatives in particular have
continued with their obsession. The difference is that between 1997 and now they
were quietly obsessed. Their failure to elect Ken Clarke as their leader on
three separate occasions was an extraordinary example of Europe's stealthy grip.
There are very few potential leaders in political parties. At times there are
none at all. After being slaughtered in 1997 and 2001, the Tories were fortunate
enough to have a formidable and attractive candidate in the shape of the former
chancellor. They went out of their way to make sure he did not get the job.
William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard have Europe to thank for
their rise to the top. In a different way Tony Blair has Europe to thank that
these were the leaders he faced.

So Europe has continued to determine the course of British politics, as it has
done since the 1970s. The promise of a referendum helped Labour to win narrowly
in the two elections of 1974. Europe then became partly responsible for the
split on the left in the early 1980s. After which it tore apart the
Conservatives, destroying both Margaret Thatcher and John Major.

Until 1997 Europe was a noisy wrecker. Since then there has not been a single
self-contained debate about Europe at a Labour party conference. The Cabinet has
rarely discussed Europe. There has been no full-scale debate in the Commons
involving the two main party leaders.

Most astonishing of all, though, was the lack of noise in the Conservative
Party. Privately senior Tory figures from across the party had predicted that
after the 1997 election there would be a civil war. This did not happen. They
did not have the equivalent battles fought by Labour's defeated titans in the
early 1980s. Yet Europe did not go away. Instead it was the titans who kept
their heads down, lacking the energy for a defining battle, almost as if the
Conservatives were so heavily defeated there was virtually no breath left in the
body at all.

Labour's big figures still had plenty of life after their removal from power in
1979. Michael Foot and Neil Kinnock would probably argue that they had too much
bloody life in them. But through those draining, morale- sapping internal rows
Labour reached a degree of resolution on Europe and a whole range of other
issues as well. The rows had to precede the reforms, including Labour's
conversion to a pro-European party.

Under William Hague the Conservatives discovered a unifying formula of sorts
when he declared simplistically that he wanted Britain to be "in Europe but not
run by Europe". The Hague soundbite more or less explains Mr Howard's position.
It is a formula to keep a party together, a linguistic device in which
pro-Europeans can focus on the commitment to remain in Europe and the sceptics
can celebrate a resolution to renegotiate Britain's terms of membership. As
Harold Wilson's leadership of the Labour Party demonstrates, a unifying formula
can only get a party so far. At some point thorny issues have to be resolved one
way or another. For the Conservatives that moment is moving a little nearer.

Already the rise of UKIP has sparked an internal debate. Predictably some Tories
are criticising Howard for not adopting a more strident Euro- sceptical voice.
These critics overlook the fate of Hague at the last election, when he seemed to
spend most of his time in Dover talking about the need to save the pound and
warning that Britain could become a foreign land. More interesting are signs of
a tentative move in the opposite direction.

More reflective Tories are starting to flex their muscles. Malcolm Rifkind warns
hardline Eurosceptics that their behaviour led to John Major's tormented defeat
in 1997. Michael Portillo suggests that Howard should not have paid much
attention to UKIP. In tone and substance Portillo is more pro-European these
days. The consistently pro-European David Currie has broken a discreet silence
by calling on his party to confront UKIP rather than compete with it.

Here is the flickering of a debate that the Conservatives should have had after
their 1997 election defeat. UKIP is forcing the Conservatives to focus on the
implications of being part of Europe. It will take another election defeat, and
a "yes" vote in the referendum on the constitution, but they are moving from an
artificial unity of silence to the beginnings of an almighty row that will make
or break them as a mainstream party of government. If they seek to win power
again, those who are arguing from a tentatively pro-European perspective will
prevail in the end. There is simply not enough support in the country for a
party that pledges withdrawal. Once that debate is over, the victors will need
to draw up more credible policies for a party that has decided withdrawal is not
an option.

The beginning of a debate in the Conservative Party matters hugely, partly
because of the Government's attitude. Some of the most pro-European ministers
argue privately that it will be impossible to make significant progress while
the main opposition party is so defiantly sceptical. One of the main
characteristics of New Labour is an exaggerated respect for the threat posed by
the Conservatives. They will not take big risks on Europe when the Conservatives
stand to be the main beneficiaries. Indeed, so wary is Labour of going too far
that I would not be greatly surprised if it is a pro-European Conservative
government that takes Britain into the single currency at some point in the
distant future. "You can trust us. We were opponents once, you know."

That is leaping many hurdles. For now Europe is getting noisy again. Forget
about Iraq, tax, and even education, education, education. They are big issues
that affect us all, but the next few years in British politics, like the past
three decades, will be shaped by Europe, Europe, Europe.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              249 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

IN THE SHADOW OF EXTREME NATIONALISM

BYLINE: BILLY BRAGG

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 850 words


Supporters of the England football team have taken to flying the flag of St
George from their car windows. Does that make you feel a little uncomfortable?
If so, you have the D-Day generation to thank for that. The victory they secured
in 1945 was, ultimately, more than just the defeat of Germany. After all, that
had been achieved in the First World War. The D-Day generation accomplished
something that had eluded their parents. They eradicated the belligerent
nationalism that had haunted Europe for 100 years.

The Nazis were the ultimate expression of this force, yet its appetites were not
confined within the borders of Germany. In every country that the Nazis invaded,
they found willing accomplices for their crimes against humanity. No nation was
immune. Oswald Mosley's British Union of Fascists was formed to exploit the same
emotions that fuelled Hitler's rise to power. This aggressive sense of
nationalism emerged in the 19th century and fed an intense rivalry between
France and Germany which exploded into war three times between 1870 and 1940.

In the first instance, the Franco-Prussian War of 1870, it was left to the two
belligerents to sort things out between them. The second time it happened, in
1914, much of Europe was drawn into four years of senseless slaughter. The third
time, the whole world was convulsed in a bloodbath.

The peace we have enjoyed since can be traced back to the great sacrifices made
on D-Day and thereafter by our armed forces. Yet they might have been in vain
were it not for the concerted effort made after the war to ensure that extreme
nationalism could never flare up again. Winston Churchill was one of the
greatest advocates of European unity. In a speech on Europe in 1949, he called
for a policy of "closer political unity ... It is said with truth that this
involves some sacrifice or merger of national sovereignty". Encouraged by
Churchill, the historical disputes between France and Germany were peacefully
resolved, culminating in 1957, when the Treaty of Rome was signed, founding the
European Union.

I had a chance to chew over this subject with some old soldiers gathered
together at a local D-Day commemoration. Like many of their generation, they
have a sceptical view of the EU - "You know, we are an island," they reminded
me. But when I put Churchill's words to them, they conceded that, if pooling our
sovereignty within the EU meant that their grandchildren would never have to go
through the horrors of war, then perhaps it was a price worth paying.

Yet, for all our advances, those 19th- century ideas that got the D-Day
generation into all that trouble in the first place are beginning to resurface.
On Thursday, in the European and local elections, an extreme nationalist party
will be wrapping itself in the Union Jack and asking for your vote.

The British National Party is led by Nick Griffin, who once wrote that the
Holocaust was a "mixture of Allied wartime propaganda, extremely profitable lie
and latter witch-hysteria". When challenged on this comment in 2002, he stood by
his words. The BNP goes to great lengths to present itself as a respectable
party, yet it is led by a man who is prepared to make excuses for the conduct of
the Nazis. The fact that Nick Griffin is prepared to speak up in defence of a
regime that tried to invade our country totally undermines the patriotism of the
BNP.

The UK Independence Party holds very strong views on immigration, yet does not
feel the need to make excuses for Hitler's Third Reich. Let no one be in any
doubt that the BNP represents the people who were defending the beaches on
D-Day. A vote for the party is a slap in the face to the Normandy veterans who
so proudly paraded at the weekend.

The thousands of crosses at the British cemetery at Bayeux are a potent reminder
of the dangers of extreme nationalism.

The voices of those who made the ultimate sacrifice echo down the years. I hear
them whenever I see the flag of St George fluttering from a car window. The
innocuous support of our national football team summons up the ghosts of the
victims of fascism.

Perhaps only by standing together, all our flags flying, will we be able to
overcome our ambivalence about the St George's flag, just as the united nations,
all flags flying, overcame the Nazis in 1945. On Thursday, millions of people in
Europe will vote in the European elections, some in favour of more integration,
others against. The fact that we now resolve these issues together, peacefully
should offer some comfort to those who still mourn the lives cut short on D-Day.

The EU, for all its faults and failures, is the ultimate guarantor of the peace
that the D-Day generation fought so long and hard to win. When I go into the
ballot box, I will be thinking of the old soldiers and the great sacrifices that
they made on 6 June 1944. We owe it to them to participate in the democracy that
they saved for us. I, for one, will be keeping faith with those who stormed the
beaches by doing everything I can to kick the BNP into the dustbin of history.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              250 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

BLAIR: THREAT WON'T STOP ME

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS, DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 166 words

HIGHLIGHT: CAMPAIGN: Blair in the Midlands yesterday


TONY BLAIR says he will not let fear of terrorism stop him doing his job. In an
interview today he shrugs off fears about his safety.

He tells Time Out magazine: "My belief ultimately is that if they are going to
get you, they are going to get you." But he says he will not let it limit his
contact with the public. "What's important is that we don't create so many
barriers you can't interact."

On the campaign trail, Mr Blair says he will take responsibility for the results
in Thursday's local and European elections. He says: "I am PM. I always take
responsibility. The buck stops with me and that's part of the job."

Labour and Tories face their worst results yet, a poll indicated last night.

Tory support in the European poll could fall from 36 per cent in 1999 to about
24 per cent.

Labour could slip from 28 per cent to 25-26per cent while UKIP could see support
rise from 7 per cent to about 13 per cent and the Lib Dems rise from 13 per cent
to 16-18 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              251 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 8, 2004

BLAIRBRUSHED

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, Political Editor

LENGTH: 376 words


'Liability' row as he vanishes from election ads

TONY Blair has been DROPPED from Labour's campaign for Thursday's Euro and local
elections, it emerged last night.

The Prime Minister -once seen as the party's greatest election asset -does not
feature in any of its TV election broadcasts.

And his picture and signature are missing from leaflets and flysheets in 11
regions where elections are under way across Britain.

The decision to "Blairbrush" the PM out of the campaign came as he admitted Iraq
was "a divisive issue" and was costing the party votes.

Tories pounced on the tactical blunder, branding the PM the "invisible man".

Tory chairman Liam Fox said: "The absence of Tony Blair from any of Labour's
election broadcasts shows he is losing authority within his own party. Labour
seem ashamed of their leader."

A Lib Dem spokesman said: "Tony Blair's unpopularity on the Iraq war and issues
such as top-up fees are doing Labour real damage." Labour's campaign manager
Douglas Alexander tried to brush off the charge. He said: "Elections are not
simply a judgement on one individual or one party."

Signs that Mr Blair, pictured right at a campaign meeting yesterday, is now seen
as an election liability for the first time in ten years as Labour leader
emerged as maverick London Mayor Ken Livingstone rallied behind him.

Campaign

"Red Ken" -once denounced by Mr Blair as a disaster for Labour -admitted his
chances of re-election had been hit by fury over Iraq.

Meanwhile, rattled Conservatives will challenge the UK Independence Party
head-on today over its campaign to pull out of the EU.

Tory leader Michael Howard will insist Britain must remain in the EU to fight
its corner. But with Tories defecting in their droves to UKIP, his message may
be too late. In a speech to supporters in Bristol, Mr Howard will vow to fight
against the EU Constitution.

But he will add: "Saying no does not mean we would have to leave the EU, just as
we can say no to the single currency without leaving the EU."

He will vow to take powers back from Brussels over key areas of British law and
the economy. He said: "Saying no would send a clear message that we want control
over our lives here in Britain."


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              252 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 8, 2004

BLAIRBRUSHED

BYLINE: By Trevor Kavanagh, Political Editor

LENGTH: 458 words


'Liability' row as he vanishes from election ads

TONY Blair has been airbrushed from Labour's campaign for Thursday's Euro and
local elections.

The Prime Minister - once seen as the party's greatest election asset - does not
feature in any of its TV election broadcasts.

And his picture and signature are missing from leaflets and flysheets in 11
regions where elections are under way.

The decision to largely take the PM out of the campaign came as he admitted Iraq
was "a divisive issue" and was costing the party votes.

Tories pounced on the tactical blunder, branding the PM (seen left at a campaign
meeting yesterday) the "invisible man".

Tory chairman Liam Fox said: "The absence of Tony Blair from any of Labour's
election broadcasts shows he is losing authority within his own party. Labour
seem ashamed of their leader and can think of nothing better to do than talk
about the past."

A Lib Dem spokesman said: "Tony Blair's unpopularity on Iraq and issues such as
top-up fees are doing Labour real damage." Labour's campaign manager Douglas
Alexander tried to brush off the charge. He said: "Elections are not simply a
judgment on one individual or party."

Campaign

Signs that Mr Blair is now seen as an election liability for the first time in
ten years came as maverick London Mayor Ken Livingstone rallied behind him.

But "Red Ken" - once denounced by Mr Blair as a disaster for Labour - admitted
his chances of re-election had been hit by fury over Iraq.

Meanwhile, rattled Tories will today challenge the UK Independence Party over
its campaign to pull out of the EU.

Leader Michael Howard will insist Britain must stay in the EU to fight its
corner. But with Tories defecting in droves to the UKIP, his message may be too
late.

In a speech to supporters in Bristol, Mr Howard will vow to fight against the EU
Constitution. But he will add: "Saying no doesn't mean we'd have to leave the
EU, just as we can say no to the single currency without leaving the EU." He
will vow to take powers back from Brussels over key areas.

He said: "Saying no would send a clear message that we want control over our
lives."

Last night a YouGov election study gave Labour 26 per cent, ahead of the Tories
on 24 per cent. UKIP had 19 per cent - pushing the Lib Dems into fourth with 15
per cent.

A Populus survey for The Times put the Lib Dems third with 16 to 18 points,
ahead of UKIP on 13.

It also showed that one in seven voters in the North West, the North East,
Yorkshire and Humberside and the East Midlands had not received voting papers by
last weekend.

It is anticipated the Tories will lose votes to UKIP - and Labour to the Lib
Dems and Tories.

The Sun Says - Page Eight


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              253 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 8, 2004

RIGHT MUDDLE

SECTION: SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 175 words


THE only winner in the European elections on Thursday will be apathy, experts
have told us for weeks.

They say people with little love for the EU won't make much effort to vote to
send someone there.

A low turnout would be bad news for Labour and Tony Blair has been braced for a
poor result.

Maybe that's why he has been airbrushed out of the Labour campaign.

But now polls show a twist - even if the Labour vote is hit, it is the Tories
who could be in WORSE trouble.

The threat to them comes from the UK Independence Party, whose sole policy is
Britain out of the EU.

It is an extreme position which puts UKIP on the political fringe.

But UKIP does reflect a growing mood of scepticism and concern across Europe
about the increasing dominance of the EU.

The Tories have failed to harness that mood. Labour surely never will.

So when the election results are announced on Sunday, we will be left with a
beggar's muddle.

Worse than that is the prospect of UKIP's oily Robert Kilroy-Silk crowing about
it.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              254 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

Howard under fire over threat posed by UKIP

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett, Simon de Bruxelles and Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 640 words


PRESSURE mounted on Michael Howard yesterday over his election campaign strategy
when two pro-European Tory MPs publicly criticised him for failing to tackle the
threat of the UK Independence Party.

As the Conservative leader made his last major speech of the campaign, David
Curry, a former member of Mr Howard's Shadow Cabinet, said that the Tories'
anti-EU rhetoric had served only to fuel Euroscepticism and drive voters into
the arms of the UKIP.

Mr Howard and Liam Fox, his party co-chairman, have been sharply criticised by
senior party figures for failing to foresee the popularity of the UKIP, which
wants to withdraw from the EU.

In addition, the Tories had intended to campaign heavily for a referendum on the
EU constitition, and were left without a coherent strategy when Tony Blair bowed
to pressure and offered voters a say on the new treaty. Critics say they should
have had a "plan B".

However, Mr Curry and Ian Taylor, a former Science Minister, are the first to go
public with their criticism. Mr Curry, the MP for Skipton & Ripon who stepped
down as Shadow Local Government Secretary in March, called on his party leader
to confront the UKIP rather than harden his language in an desperate attempt to
win back their votes.

"It is essential that the Conservative Party confronts UKIP and does not try to
compete with UKIP for the Eurosceptic vote," he said.

"Under William Hague and Mr Duncan Smith, our campaign was quite close to
vilification of Europe. Even now we talk about 'a country called Europe'. That
is miles from the mark," he told BBC radio.

Mr Howard made no mention of the anti-EU party in his speech on Europe. Instead,
he invoked the spirit of Margaret Thatcher, saying that a Tory government would
be prepared to say "no" to any moves towards a more centralised EU. "Whatever
Tony Blair finally agrees, the establishment of a European constitution is a
major strategic defeat for his Government," Mr Howard said. "The truth is that
when Labour begin negotiating the constitution next week, they will be fighting
a massive damage-limitation exercise. The truth is that Labour have let Britain
down in Europe. They have totally failed to stand up for British interests".

The 200 party faithful invited to hear Mr Howard speak in Bristol clearly feared
that the UKIP could prove too tempting for Eurosceptic Tories. There was virtual
unanimity that Mr Howard was a charismatic and capable leader, but alarm over
support for the UKIP is rising. Dierdre Horstmann, a parish councillor from
Bath, said: "Mr Howard is doing very well but everyone is talking about UKIP
because they are worried it's taking votes." Mr Howard, asked after his speech
whether he was worried that the UKIP was stealing the Tories' clothes, replied:
"They aren't our clothes and that isn't our policy."

His speech provoked a second attack from within the party from Mr Taylor, MP for
Esher & Walton. "By constantly attacking the proposed constitutional treaty and
the working of the EU, the Conservative Party is giving the impression that
Britain is continuously under threat from Brussels," he said. "We imply that it
is us versus that lot 'over there'. If that's the case then the only logical
conclusion is that we should withdraw."

In a party election broadcast tonight, Mr Howard will again invoke Margaret
Thatcher, saying that she demonstrated the "Conservative alternative".

"Today, people are telling us you've either got to sign up to everything that
comes out of Europe or give up altogether. That's just the sort of thing
Margaret Thatcher was told. People told her, 'You'll never get our money back
from Europe'.

But she wasn't having that. She said no. And look what happened -Britain got her
rebate which is still being paid to this day."

Leading article, page 19


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

A wild vote

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 634 words


The decision to combine the local and European elections this year, coupled with
the innovation of postal ballots for many citizens, has produced the most
unusual and complicated political contest in British his-tory. The electorate
appears set to respond, according to the Times/Populus poll published today,
with the most unusual and complicated outcome in British history. The local
election results are likely to be similar to those often endured by governments
in the midterm of a Parliament. The battle for the European Parliament, by
contrast, verges on the anarchic. The two major parties will struggle to obtain
50 per cent of the votes cast, while those normally considered part of the
"fringe", particularly the UK Independence Party (UKIP) but also the Greens, may
have a field day.

The novelty of this ballot and the volatile mood of voters means that a huge
health warning has to be slapped on any prediction about the election. Populus
has faithfully recorded the views of those who insist that they are certain to
turn out and of those in the postal vote regions who contend that they have
already mailed back their material. But both sets of numbers are sharply higher
than those which occurred when the European Parliament was last contested five
years ago.

There is no way of telling whether those who have pledged to vote actually will
or which political party will benefit or suffer from any "fib factor". All that
can be expected with confidence is that it will be an election night like no
other.

As matters stand, the UKIP is likely to perform far better than in 1999 when it
won 7 per cent of the votes cast on a dire turnout. It has shown a flair for
publicity in this campaign, assisted by a degree of ineptitude from the
Conservative Party. It would be wrong to argue that a ballot cast for the UKIP
here is a "wasted vote"; the dubious charms of proportional representation mean
that it is not. Those who sincerely wish to leave the EU are, of course,
entitled to back a party that unambiguously favours that position.

Before doing so, though, they should ponder the paradox of this position. The
enlargement of the EU (which the UKIP, curiously, opposed) has brought in a
number of new members whose politicians and publics are profoundly wary of
Brussels and sympathetic to British instincts. If there were a moment for those
who are rightly frustrated about the EU to push for broadly supported reform,
then this is surely it.

Michael Howard is already under internal pressure to alter policy emphasis even
before the first ballots are counted. He is being advised to distance himself
further from Tony Blair on Iraq (in effect, moving to the left) and to minimise
the UKIP effect by being more sceptical on Europe (edging to the right). He
should resist any such temptation. It would be a ludicrous overreaction to a
short term difficulty. It would also leave him with a stance neither as
committed to the special relationship as it should be nor capable of
constructive engagement in the EU. This would be to opt for an intellectual and
political no man's land. It is not a credible stance and he should not allow his
personal commitment to the transatlantic partnership and reasoned wariness of
the EU to be compromised so easily.

This is not, after all, a general election. Indeed, around 70 per cent of those
planning to back one of the smaller parties this week admitted to Populus that
their choices now would not be repeated in a Westminster contest. This is the
statistic that all in the main parties, and, in particular, the Conservatives,
should keep in mind when they react to what is destined to be a wild vote in
weird circumstances. If not, there could be unfortunate consequences when the
real polling day finally arrives.


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              256 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

Labour and Tories hit by fringe parties

BYLINE: Peter Riddell and Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 882 words


Postal voting in disarray as one in seven say papers are missing

VOTERS are set to reject both the Conservative and Labour parties on a record
scale in Thursday's European and local elections.

A Populus poll for The Times also reports one in seven people in areas with
all-postal voting saying that they had not received ballot papers by last
weekend.

The poll undertaken over the weekend, suggests that the two main parties may win
no more than half the total votes cast, by far their worst performance in any
nationwide election. Turnout may be about a third, with the two parties together
winning the backing of merely one in six adults.

The Liberal Democrats, in third place, and the UK Independence Party could gain
more members of the European Parliament.

Predictions of the outcome are complicated because of the four English regions
(the North West, the North East, Yorkshire and Humberside and the East Midlands)
which have all-postal voting. Most people who will vote in these regions have
probably already done so.

The controversial all-postal ballot experiment was in difficulty last night when
a small council ward near Manchester decided to set up two traditional polling
booths for the election on Thursday. The fiasco follows signs that tens of
thousands of ballot papers may be missing in the post.

The main losers in the election look like being Michael Howard and the
Conservatives, who have been haemorrhaging support to the UK Independence Party.

Tory support in the European elections could fall from 36 per cent in 1999 to
around 24 per cent.

The Tories' problems have been a welcome distraction for Labour from what is
likely to be an even worse result than its performance in 1999. Labour could
slip from 28 to between 25 and 26 per cent.

Labour looks set to lose seats in the local elections to both the Tories and Lib
Dems.

The UKIP could rise from 7 to around 13 per cent, implying a rise on its present
total of three MEPs.

Any gains by the UKIP would be largely at the Tories' expense and would be a
huge embarrassment for Mr Howard.

Senior Tories had been talking of improving on their 1999 showing and of
treating the elections as a springboard for the general election. As The Times
reported yesterday, Mr Howard will be urged to carry out a full review of
campaigning amid complaints of an absence of a "game plan" for the elections and
confusion over whether to attack or ignore the UKIP.

Liam Fox, the joint party chairman, is being privately criticised for failing to
provide a clear message, especially after Tony Blair neutralised the intended
campaign theme by promising a referendum on a European constitution.

The rise in support for the UKIP has reopened Tory splits on Europe. Many MPs
believe that Mr Howard should have followed the tactics of William Hague in 1999
and made Europe the key issue. Roger Helmer, a Eurosceptic Tory MEP, yesterday
said that the party should adopt a policy of "wideranging disengagement" from EU
law.

But the party's pro-European wing believes that the UKIP is prospering because
of its anti-Brussels rhetoric.

David Curry, who resigned from the Shadow Cabinet in March, said that Mr Howard
should confront the Eurosceptics rather than seek their votes. Mr Curry and Ian
Taylor, another leading pro-European Tory, both said that the party should stop
giving the impression that Britain was continuously under threat from Brussels.

The Times poll shows that, by a clear 57 to 43 per cent margin, Tory supporters
believe that Britain should leave the EU, even though the public generally
favours staying in by 52.5 to 47.5 per cent.

The sole consolation for the Tories is that the surge in support for the UKIP
could be temporary. Three quarters of those backing the UKIP say that they are
considering voting for a party that they would never back in a general election.
The Lib Dems will be relieved to come third ahead of the UKIP, rather than
fourth, as implied by some internet polls. The Lib Dems may gain on their 1999
showing of 13 per cent to win between 16 and 18 per cent.

The pro-European Lib Dems tend to do less well in European elections, but, as
with some smaller parties they may have gained from opposition to the Iraq war.

The Greens could also benefit from Labour's unpopularity by improving on their
1999 share of 6 per cent, to 8-9 per cent. The BNP could improve its national
share from 1 to 3-4 per cent, but this is unlikely to be enough to win a
European seat. However, the BNP may win more council seats in some northern
cities.

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults aged over 18 by telephone
between June 4 and 6. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to be representative of all adults.

Howard under fire, page 4

Leading article and Letters, page 19

Kilroy-Silk interview, T2

VOTING INTENTIONS

Labour

25-26% (28)

Conservatives

24% (36)

Liberal Democrats 16-18% (13)

UK Independence 13% (7)

Greens

8-9% (6)

(1999 result in brackets)

* estimated range, based on those already voting in all-postal regions and those
saying they are certain to vote elsewhere.

Source: Populus/The Times, based on interviews June 4-6


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              257 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 8, 2004, Tuesday

A bigot, a xenophobe, a racist? I'm none of those things -I can't be

BYLINE: Andrew Billen

SECTION: Features; Times2; 6

LENGTH: 2225 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK, THE TOPPLED TV SHOW HOST WHO "SAYS WHAT EVERYBODY THINKS",
IS IN HIS ELEMENT MIXING IT AMONG THE PEOPLE AS A CAMPAIGNING CANDIDATE FOR THE
UK Independence Party

WATCHING him on the stump, I realise to my horror that Robert Kilroy-Silk is the
best campaigner I have ever seen. The bronzed but toppled TV god, who this glum
morning has descended in his smart blue suit to mix it among the people of
Northampton, flirts as he hugs as he jokes, even surreally interpolating himself
into a wedding party as it emerges from the Guildhall. For pictures, he offers
to put his tongue in your ear. For politics, he tells people what they think and
practises nodding shots as they agree that this indeed is what they do think.
His common touch is a political ideology in its own right.

He is the UK Independence Party's lead candidate for the East Midlands in the
European elections on Thursday but, since the first thing everyone says to him
is "We do miss you on the telly", you could easily think he was running to get
his old job back on the BBC. The former Labour MP held down the gig as Britain's
post-breakfast Oprah for 18 years until January, when he was fired for calling
Arabs "suicide bombers, limb-amputators, women-oppressors" in his Sunday Express
column.

In some nightmarish way, his sacking and his opinion of Arab states has blended
into the UKIP's campaign to get Britain out of Europe.

A woman in a beige anorak says: "You're saying what everyone thinks."

"I'm saying what everybody thinks," he nods. "That is what everybody says to me.

And that is the problem! Why can't we tell the truth? Why can't I say what I
think without feeling guilty or embarrassed or ashamed? We should be able to
tell the truth and we should be able to talk about the facts and we are not
allowed to do that. People like you are the majority, the licence payers, and
everyone says 'We miss you. We want you back on the television.' And your voice
isn't heard. The only voice they listen to is a small minority of professional
whingers and the politically correct elite in London and they dictate all what
you can watch. And every single person I have met in the past few weeks,
thousands of you, have all said, 'We want you back.' Did you think I was
biased?" "No," says the woman in beige cautiously.

"You knew I had strong views."

"We knew what your views were, obviously, but we didn't find that part of you
offensive."

He challenges us journalists to take note. We are the politically correct elite,
although he makes an exception for the man from the local paper: "You're the
journalist who tells the truth!" "Patronising git," the Chronicle's man mutters,
issuing the morning's sole voice of dissent save for a former Labour councillor
who shouts "Silk's a racist!" on the way back from the cabbage stall.

He's not a racist, not personally. Like Bill Clinton, but without the brains,
he's an equal-opportunity flesh-grabber, all over an elderly black man who calls
himself Jamaican (but to Kilroy just another Brit) and the Egyptian security
guard who moved here five years ago and volunteers: "I'm an Arab and I totally
support you."

"Why do they all assume that all Arabs are in favour of suicide bombing and
amputation?" Kilroy asks -a little oddly, since the answer may be because "they"
read his column.

But then it's an odd campaign all round, one in which the candidate is far
better known than the election. Ignorance could win by a landslide here.
Kilroy's chummy campaign manager, Dick Horsnell, a 65-year-old former director
of Phillips now resident in the Isle of Man, asks me who I mean when I mention
Philip Whitehead.

The region's sitting MEP, I say. "Ah, the socialist," says Horsnell, a former
Tory whose patriotism extended to fleeing the country for five years after the
1979 winter of discontent.

"Everybody knows the brand Kilroy. Very few people know the brand UKIP. Well my
job in marketing terms is to link the Kilroy brand with the UKIP brand," he
explains as he drives me haphazardly to Corby, one of 44 parliamentary
constituencies that comprise the hopelessly vast and unknowable East Midlands
Eurozone.

Whereas Northampton is Tory territory, Corby is Labour, a bleak town peopled by
ex-steelworkers from Scotland. When we arrive the centre is almost empty, but
the celebrity equivalent of the Doppler Wobble soon comes into play as, entering
Corby's orbit, the lightweight object that is Kilroy creates disproportionate
vibrations. Within minutes the mall pulsates with shoppers wanting autographs -
even autographs squiggled on UKIP flyers.

In front of an appropriately defiant-sounding shop called Poundland, a young man
who styles himself Mr Docherty asks what Kilroy means by fighting to get "our
country back." "So we don't get governed by Brussels and we can speak out and
tell the truth and stop being made to feel embarrassed to be British," he says,
observed by a window's worth of gnomes, a pound each.

"And get Captain Hook out as well?" asks Mr Docherty hopefully,.

"That's right," says Kilroy. They are talking, presciently, about Abu Hamza.

The question I ask, when I share a Jag-ride with the candidate to Kettering, is
whether these autograph hunters will actually vote for him. "Probably not," he
replies.

I'll not fault his honesty. Although under PR he needs only 14 per cent of the
vote, he doubts if he will actually get elected here and hopes rather that the
publicity he generates will help UKIP candidates elsewhere. With equal candour
he says that if he is elected to the Parliament he has no intention of attending
very often: "I'm not going to be stuck in some committee in Strasbourg." When he
insists that the metropolitan, Groucho Club media elite is "out of touch" he
tells the truth too. I have, I tell him, never felt so out of touch in my life.
It is one thing to guess that Middle Britain is meanly xenophobic, quite another
to predict its fondness for Robert Kilroy-Silk, a man who has smarmed and
patronised them on TV for almost two decades while amassing a personal fortune.

I put it to him that we opinion-formers call him "super-rich", "racist",
"smooth" and "adulterous" (I hesitate to mention this last adjective since his
nice wife, Jan, is in the front seat listening, but he did spawn an obligatory
love child) yet on the streets people can't get enough of him. His lantern jaw
turns granite.

"When I first came to the BBC it was Bill Cotton (then managing director of BBC
Television) who said to me, 'You'll get p****d on from a great height by the
media in London. You know that, don't you? They'll never like you, but you'll be
loved on the council estates. As long as you connect with the people there, it
doesn't matter what they do.' And it's exactly the same now with this election.

"I'm accused of all kinds of things: going on a sunbed, dyeing my hair -when I
started in television my hair used to be absolutely jet black but it was going
grey at the side, so I was accused of doing that because it made me look
distinguished. Now it's gone silver and I'm accused of actually dyeing it
silver."

It is 30 years since he was elected a Labour MP in February 1974 but his
electioneering methods have not changed. The tactility that rings so false to me
- and is the other side of the physicality that has led from time to time in his
career to well-reported fisticuffs -is the only way he knows.

"You can't put that on, either. It's got to be real because they'll suss you
straight away. That's my gran out there. My paternal grandfather was a road
sweeper and so when I talked to the road sweeper back there, it was my
grandfather I was talking to. His wife used to scrub pub floors. In
working-class terms that was just a bit above the lowest of the low and the
lowest of the low was the real lumpen proletariat.

My own father (William Silk) was a farm labourer and my stepfather (John Kilroy)
worked in a car factory. So those are my people and I know them. They don't like
bullshit and they don't like anybody who's a bit airy-fairy or supercilious or
putting on airs and graces. My mother would say, 'Don't you start that,
Robert'."

"You never did airs and graces anyway," says Jan loyally. "We're working-class
people. We're educated. We were the first generation to go to university but in
our roots, our feelings, we're still working-class."

"My relationship with the people is dangerous," her husband admits. "If we
didn't have a first-past-the-post system (in Westminster elections) it would be
very dangerous for the older parties." Certainly, I think privately, his style
of politics would have had potential in the Thirties. It's demagogic, isn't it?

"I'm not demagogic and I do know what the word means. I am popular and popular
doesn't mean to say you're populist. There's a distinction." I just query the
quality of his support. Mr Docherty, who must now be rejoicing at the fate of
Captain Hook, told me that a friend of a friend had been forced out of her
council house to make way for immigrants (and, still less credibly, that a local
cafe sports "No Whites").

"He may have said that to you but he didn't say that to me. I would have wanted
the facts, but if he'd expressed racist views I would have disassociated myself.
I would have said, 'But we don't do that, do we?' " Isn't he worried that some
of his voters actually are racists? "I'm sure they are, oh, absolutely. They'll
come up and whisper, 'What you said was right.' I'm sure some of them are
racist. But I'm not asking racists to vote for me and I don't want them to.

"I have very strong views on lots of subjects which I've expressed very forcibly
and a lot of them have to do with Muslims but they have been in the news quite a
lot recently, starting with burning Salman Rushdie's book. I have quite strong
views on that and I've expressed them." The question is whether by doing so he
incites racial hatred. "Well, have I? Where's the evidence?" It is true that no
one, so far as we know, has had a knife held at their throat as a result of his
"We owe Arabs nothing" rant.

That's lucky, since as rants go it was a spectacularly ill-judged, intemperate
and ill-informed one. Yet we should concede, too, that Kilroy is a symptom of a
more general political failure to find a vocabulary to discuss people's feelings
about immigration and national identity.

Personally, he feels pushed into the front line. "I don't like it. It's not
nice.

It's really not nice because I know I'm going to get all the shit and all the
flak. But I almost feel that, if I don't, they're all going to be trodden on.
And that sounds really pompous, I know, but if somebody like me is intimidated,
is made to feel scared, is made to feel he's got to shut up because he's going
to be accused of being a bigot, a xenophobe or a racist...and I'm none of those
things. I can't be with my background. I can't be with my personality and my
nature and the way I like people. I don't see colour. I genuinely don't see
colour." We have come to rest in a multistorey. His driver Rod, who is black, is
listening and says nothing in contradiction, although he would have nothing to
lose by doing so since he, like Kilroy's 62 other employees, will shortly be
losing his job. With the axing of Kilroy and the failure of its successor, the
Kilroy production company is closing.

Kilroy, in fact, went from the UKIP manifesto launch last month to announce the
bad news. Already out was the secretary who over Christmas erroneously e mailed
the Express the article he had written in anger during the Gulf War. Sanitised
by sub-editors and lawyers, it had gone unremarked the previous April. In the
season of goodwill it did not look so clever. His staff, he says, blamed her,
not him.

Is he sure about that? "They might have done privately but I don't genuinely
believe they did. Every one of them is being extremely positive." For all the
dismay he feels at his firm's collapse and for all that being elected would
represent another disaster -imagine: at 62 being a professional politician on a
£56,000-a-year pittance -there are aspects of this year's events that are not
entirely displeasing. Bonding with "his" people on the campaign trail, he is
more one of them than ever. He too has lost his job. Perhaps he too has time to
watch daytime TV.

As a Catholic schoolboy in Birmingham he was taught that he was a persecuted
minority. In Westminster he was a loner. As a constitu-ency MP he was isolated
by the Militant Tendency. At the BBC he was tolerated rather than liked. His
enemies finally got their revenge.

He is once more one of the oppressed.

"I don't feel that," he says. "I don't do oppressed. I don't do humble. And I
don't do oppressed." Our interview ends in a coffee shop in Kettering shopping
arcade but does not survive the autograph-seekers. "To Di and Tracy," they say.

They miss him.

"You want to tell the bloody BBC then, don't you?

"You see," he says, turning to me, "it affects these people. They have been
disenfranchised." On the contrary. No one asked Di or Tracy's opinion when he
was employed by Michael Grade back in 1986. This time they can actually vote for
him.

Or, as it seems -despite appearances -more likely, they can decide not to.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION:  About halfway through: Although the taped interview accurately
reported Kilroy Silk, a cousin (who enclosed a copy of the death certificate)
maintains that the paternal grandfather was a steel erector, the grandmother a
catering manageress and the father in the building trade (NOT a farm labourer).

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 7, 2004

The great evasion of Normandy

BYLINE: PETER MCKAY

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1328 words


RESIDENT George W. Bush's speech in Normandy yesterday made no actual connection
between the events of 60 years ago and the invasion of Iraq, but that was his
real purpose.

watched President Ronald Reagan speak at the 40th anniversary of DDay. He was
eloquent and moving.

Ten years ago it was President Bill Clinton at the 50th. Some Republicans then
thought it inappropriate that a man who'd dodged the Vietnam draft should take
part in this solemn military occasion (they hadn't envisaged George W. Bush back
then) but Clinton, too, spoke well.

NEITHER Reagan nor Clinton-bore any grudges against European nations.

George W. Bush, by contrast, is furious with France and Germany over their
refusal to back his Iraq invasion. So the fraternal words he spoke were
essentially false.

Mr Bush's host, French president Jacques Chirac, used the occasion to promote
the EU. He invited Germany's chancellor, Gerhard Schroeder, to Normandy, in
order to establish that today's Germany isn't responsible for its past.

Herr Schroeder now views D-Day as a victory for Germany over its Nazi rulers,
even though the Germans (Nazi and otherwise) fought on for another 11 months.
This removes both their responsibility for the war as well as for their defeat.

Some may prefer the view expressed by The Times's Berlin correspondent, Roger
Boyes: 'The only people who were unambiguously freed from the thrall of Hitler
were the inmates of concentration camps.

They will not be represented in Normandy' Mr Bush and M Chirac stressed the long
friendship between their nations. Indeed, M Chirac called it 'eternal'. This
humbug was too much for U.S. servicemen in the crowd. They seethed and snarled
their contempt for Chirac's refusal to join Bush's invasion of Iraq.

Our own head of state, the Queen, busied herself unobtrusively; Tony Blair,
facing Euro and local elections this week, plunged through the ex-servicemen as
if he were taking part in a sponsored handshaking contest.

One oft-repeated complaint over the weekend was that schoolchildren no longer
have the faintest idea of what D-Day was. A survey in the U.S.

said most of those questioned thought it was a Denzel Washington movie.

So, who is to blame for that?

The same politicians who pledged our eternal remembrance yesterday. They have
failed to make our wars a matter of proper historical study.

We are told this is likely to be the last D-Day remembrance. Most of the
survivors will have gone by the 70th anniversary. It doesn't matter.

Real remembrance isn't about assembling a diminished band of survivors in
Normandy to be told by politicians about what they and their comrades did for
their countries.

It's a private sadness which exists in families who sent the young off to a war
from which they didn't return.

Look who washed up on the beaches!

ROWS over people failing to attend events are always overdone.

Scotland's First Minister Jack McConnell decided he'd rather attend a dinner
with Prince Andrew in St Andrews than the D-Day events.

It's said Mr McConnell wanted to stay away from Normandy because he was placed
among minor officials there. However, the media fuss caused him to change his
mind.

Certainly his place was there and not St Andrews. But if he hadn't been panicked
out of changing his mind, his punishment by voters might have been more severe.
Especially if we saw pictures of him hobnobbing with Prince Andrew, who also
gave DDay a miss and stuck to his guns.

FORMER Tory Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine has no fewer than ten
gardeners, we learn after one of them, a young woman, is injured by one of his
ride-on lawn mowers.

He has planted 3,500 trees and shrubs at his 50-acre estate in Thenford,
Northamptonshire, over the past 25 years.

'Hezza' was born many years too late. With his wealth, political connections and
passion for the countryside, he would have made a fine duke.

Instead he had to endure being teased over having to 'buy his own furniture' by
Cabinet colleague Alan Clark, whose counterjumping family ended up living in a
castle.

Turkey shoots don't make a spring chicken

HAVING kept us in suspense over when she'd marry actor Ben Affleck, Jennifer
Lopez has now wed fellow New Yorker, actor Marc Anthony. Why didn't she make it
up the aisle with Ben?

No doubt there were good reasons but his remark about their nuptials 'not being
her first turkey shoot' could not have pleased Miss Lopez.

It's true, though. This is her third, and the second for Mr Anthony, 35.

Four turkey shoots between them. And plenty of time for more.

FORMER Tory MP Jonathan Aitken is backing the UK Independence Party, which
threatens to deprive Conservative leader Michael Howard of precious votes this
week.

In 1999, when Mr Aitken was serving his sentence for perjury and perverting the
course of justice, Mr Howard visited him at Standford Hill prison, in Kent.

He had to endure the fingerpointing and sniggering of prisoners who recognised
the former Home Secretary.

Afterwards Mr Howard said Mr Aitken was 'in very good shape . . . he's fine'.
The newly-pious Mr Aitken has chosen an odd way to repay Mr Howard's kindness.

Cherie and her coven-ready birds

WHAT is it with Cherie Blair and women companions?

According to our wellinformed reporter Gordon Rayner, Mrs Blair now has a new
'chief courtier' called Martha Greene, a 48-year-old New Yorker.

While being photographed by Patrick Demarchelier for Harper's Bazaar, an
American magazine, Mrs Blair is said to have looked to Ms Greene for
reassurance.

Ms Greene, who 'barked instructions' at stylists during the session, has
supplanted to some degree the controversial Carole Caplin, whose boyfriend -
Australian conman Peter Foster - said he'd helped the Blairs obtain a discount
on two Bristol flats.

Ms Caplin bossed Mrs Blair about her appearance but, we're told, 'when it comes
to being forceful, Carole's got nothing on Martha'.

Although she's the most obviously successful prime ministerial wife in history,
sadly Mrs Blair also seems to be the most needy.

SINN Fein president Gerry Adams says he was tortured by police, soldiers and
plain clothes security officials in Northern Ireland.

He writes graphically in the Guardian about beatings and psychological torture,
saying Irish republican detainees were sometimes hooded and pushed out of
helicopters without knowing they were hovering just off the ground.

I do not doubt what he says. But shouldn't he - for the sake of balance - have
included something about the torture and murder practised by his colleagues in
the IRA?

Apeing each other

B-minus for the Beeb on Reagan

THE BBC marked Ronald Reagan's death, at 93, by claiming that the old boy was 'a
former Bmovie actor'.

B-movies date from the days when filmgoers were offered at least two features.
The B-movie was the less significant film.

I don't think Reagan was a Bmovie actor. Or, not for long. He acted alongside
the likes of Errol Flynn and at least one film, Kings Row, was highly regarded,
but was always modest about his talents.

While seeking the Republican candidacy, he was informed by a British journalist
covering his campaign that a local TV station was showing his films all week Mr
Reagan replied: 'Do you think I should ask for a right of reply?' Apeing each
other

TORY MP, Spectator editor and Telegraph columnist Boris Johnson is a shocking
show-off (although greatly admired by many, including my otherwise level-headed
Scottish niece, Lynn). His sister, Rachel, also writes for the papers. Their
brother Leo wrote in Boris's magazine the other day.

Now Stanley Johnson, father of this in-your-face family, turns up in the Daily
Telegraph writing about great apes in the Congo being in short supply.

No need for a special breeding programme or governmental intervention to save
the Johnsons from extinction!

END

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              259 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  June 7, 2004

LOTTERY'S GBP 20M GAY MUSEUM!

BYLINE: by EDWARD ROBERTSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 224 words


PLANS to pump GBP 20million of Lottery money into a gay museum filled with
homosexual porn and sex toys sparked outrage last night.

London Mayor Ken Livingstone and his Conservative Party rival Steve Norris have
pledged to support the project which would "celebrate queer history and
culture".

But other candidates in the mayoral race have condemned the plan for a gay
museum in the capital.

Boxing promoter Frank Maloney, who is standing for the UK Independence Party in
the London ballot, blasted: "Why on earth does London need a gay museum?

"The money would be far better spent on educating young people - improving the
sporting facilities in schools, for a start."

And a spokesman for the Lib Dem's Simon Hughes said its candidate "would not
provide financial backing" for the gay museum if he was elected for the
capital's top job.

Livingstone and Norris made their controversial pledge at a hustings held by gay
rights campaign group Stonewall.

Green Party candidate Darren Johnson, who proposed the idea, also wants to
legalise gay men cruising for sex in parks.

It is believed exhibits could include transvestite outfits, gay pornography and
sex toys like those in Europe's only other gay museum in Berlin.

The museum's costs are unknown - but a similar project in the US is expected to
hit GBP 20m.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              260 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 07, 2004, Monday

Kilroy-Silk may be next UKIP leader

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 289 words

THE United Kingdom Independence Party welcomed today's Telegraph poll and hinted
that Robert Kilroy-Silk, its lead candidate in the East Midlands, could take
over the leadership at some point in the future.

Asked about reports that he would like to become leader, Mr Kilroy-Silk said:
"I'd be lying if (I said) they haven't been raised with me by people in the
party and I haven't given some thought to them. But it is really, honestly, one
step at a time."

Roger Knapman, UKIP's current leader, said: "If people have a better idea for a
person to lead the party, that's a matter for the party at the appropriate
time."

Tony Blair and Michael Howard will start a final round of campaigning today with
the poll showing both main parties on course to do badly in Thursday's election.

According to the YouGov survey, Labour is set to come second in the European
elections and the Tories are likely to win, but by a much narrower margin than
in 1999.

With local and London mayoral and assembly elections being held on the same day,
analysing the results is likely to be difficult.

In an interview yesterday, Mr Blair refused to make any predictions but did
claim that he had been encouraged by the feedback he had experienced on the
campaign trail. "I don't notice any enthusiasm for the Conservative Party. And
the Lib Dems are really fighting on the Iraq issue, a bit odd in a local
election campaign," he said.

Mr Blair admitted that events in Iraq had dominated domestic politics. But the
Government had a good record on public services.

Mr Howard, the Tory leader, said that between now and the general election his
party would produce the most detailed set of policies published by an opposition
party in modern times.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              261 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 07, 2004, Monday

The predator snapping at Howard's heels Anthony King examines the rise of UKIP
and the likely outcome for the major parties of Thursday's elections for the
European Parliament

BYLINE: by Anthony King

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 1198 words

AFTER being mauled by Labour for the past decade, it seems that the Conservative
Party is about to fall victim to a ferocious new predator: the United Kingdom
Independence Party.

According to YouGov's final pre-election survey for The Daily Telegraph, UKIP
will bite heavily into the Tory share of the vote in Thursday's European
Parliament elections and deprive them of what appeared to be an almost certain
victory.

The Conservatives may still top the poll - just - but their share of the vote
seems likely to fall from 36 per cent in 1999, when the Tories under William
Hague triumphed in the last European elections, to roughly 25 per cent this
week.

Five years ago, the Conservatives won almost half of Britain's seats in the
Strasbourg Parliament. Now, they will do well to win more than a third.

According to YouGov, both major parties are struggling and Labour will fare
badly.

Only about a quarter of voters intend to back Labour in the Euro elections and
Labour, like the Tories, will also lose seats.

However, Labour did almost as badly in the European elections five years ago and
then went on to win a stunning victory at the 2001 general election.

Taking everything into account, Labour's failure will probably be less
significant than the Tory lack of success.

At this stage of a Parliament, an opposition party that aspires to form the next
government should be savaging its opponents.

In 1994, with a deeply unpopular Tory government in power, Labour racked up 44
per cent of the vote in that year's Euro elections.

Now, with a deeply unpopular Labour Government in power, the Conservatives look
like managing only about 25 per cent.

The Liberal Democrats' position remains largely unchanged. They should fare
reasonably well in this week's local elections - they usually do - but YouGov's
findings suggest that in the Euro elections they will poll roughly the same
share of the vote as they did five years ago.

Since Charles Kennedy succeeded Paddy Ashdown as leader in 1999, the Liberal
Democrats have neither gained substantial strength nor lost it.

The one party that is bounding ahead is UKIP. According to YouGov's latest
survey, UKIP has improved its position in third place among those most likely to
vote and is snapping at the heels of the Tories and Labour.

The Tories currently have the support of 26 per cent of probable Euro-election
voters. Labour is close behind on 24 per cent.

UKIP on 21 per cent has comfortably overtaken the Liberal Democrats, who are on
13 per cent.

If YouGov's findings prove broadly accurate, the Tories should have between 21
and 25 seats in the new European Parliament (compared with 36 now), Labour also
21-25 (compared with 29 now), UKIP 13-17 (compared with only three) and the
Liberal Democrats between nine and a dozen (compared with 10).

YouGov's data, set out in the chart, offer pointers to what underlies UKIP's
success. There is no doubt that the bulk of British public opinion at the moment
is seriously Eurosceptic in both tone and direction.

UKIP's successful and well publicised election campaign has contrived to
capitalise on that simple and central fact.

YouGov asked people whether or not they personally sympathised with a sequence
of pro-EU and anti-EU statements.

As the figures in the chart show, not one of the six pro-EU statements elicited
the sympathy of 50 per cent of respondents.

In striking contrast, more than 60 per cent of voters said they sympathised with
all but one of the anti-EU statements. Roughly three quarters of Britons, an
enormous majority, believe "there is too much corruption, mismanagement and
cronyism" in the EU, that MEPs and European Commission officials "are paid too
much and have too lavish expenses" and that the EU "interferes too much in
Britain's internal affairs".

Asked to state their personal preference among five alternative scenarios with
regard to Britain's future in Europe, only 22 per cent opt for any further steps
towards European integration.

Exactly the same proportion, 22 per cent, indicate that they would like to see
Britain pull out of the EU altogether.

The largest single proportion, 29 per cent, say they favour "a less integrated
Europe than now, with the EU amounting to little more than a free trade area". A
clear majority of 51 per cent are thus strongly Eurosceptic.

Not surprisingly, those saying they will vote UKIP in the Euro elections are the
most Eurosceptic of all. The figures in the chart make the point.

Few UKIP supporters have anything good to say about the EU and 90 per cent or
more of them have much that is bad to say about it.

A massive 93 per cent of UKIP supporters would like to see the EU reduced to
little more than a free trade area (42 per cent) or else see Britain withdraw
from the EU completely (51 per cent).

As the figures in the same portion of the chart also show, UKIP supporters and
Tories hold similarly Eurosceptic views. For that reason, UKIP is taking by far
the largest share of its vote from the Tories. No fewer than 25 per cent of
people who say they would vote Conservative in an early general election say
they intend to vote UKIP in the Euros.

The figures among comparable Labour and Liberal Democrat supporters (five and
four per cent) are far smaller.

UKIP's current Euro support thus consists largely of a substantial core of
Tories - almost certainly staunch Tories - plus scatterings of erstwhile
supporters of other parties.

That said, and although UKIP will undoubtedly do well in the Euro elections, the
party's overall strength - and any claim it makes to having a "mandate" with
regard to Europe - should not be exaggerated.

Other YouGov data, not shown in the chart, indicates that few voters will back
UKIP in this week's local elections or would back UKIP at a general election.

More to the point, a mere 20 per cent of voters, irrespective of how they intend
to vote this week, reckon that UKIP "best represents their own views on the
specific issue of Britain's relations with the European Union".

Almost as many cite the Conservatives and Labour.

In other words, even many of those who vote UKIP this week will do so with the
aim of sending a loud signal to the Government and the other parties about their
dislike of recent developments in the EU rather than because, having taken
everything into account, they actually prefer UKIP to the other parties on the
issue.

For example, UKIP is campaigning for total British withdrawal from the EU but,
as the figures in the the chart show, only about half of intending UKIP voters,
51 per cent, want to see Britain pull out completely.

The dangers likely to face the Tories following any UKIP successes in the Euros
are twofold.

One is that Michael Howard's position at Conservative Party leader will be
undermined.

The other is that the Conservatives will be tempted to go down the UKIP path and
concentrate almost exclusively on Europe.

YouGov elicited the opinions of 2,787 adults across Britain on line between June
2 and 4. The data has been weighted to conform to the demographic profile of
British adults as a whole.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              262 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 7, 2004

LEADER MINORITY PARTIES DUE TO PROFIT FROM ANGRY ELECTORATE; DON'T BE RECKLESS
IN THE VOTING BOOTH

BYLINE: KERRY GILL

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 852 words


WHO will you be voting for in Thursday's European election? The answer to that
is probably no one. If slightly fewer than 50 per cent bothered to take part in
the Scottish Parliamentary election last year, and voting in the last European
election didn't quite reach 25 per cent in Scotland, then you'll be unlikely to
have placed a red circle around June 10 in your diary.

But, strangely, for those who do intend voting in this crucial election, there
is a sense of power born, paradoxically, through our mistaken belief that our
vote will not make a shred of difference.

It is that belief which gives us, whether dyed in the wool Labour supporters or
diehard Tories, the urge to cast our vote for one of the loopy minority parties.

Because we think that our vote doesn't really matter, we throw responsibility to
the wind and decide to enjoy ourselves with a cross placed against the name of a
quite barmy would-be politician who we know fine well, if he or she got into
power, would be a strutting, jibbering catastrophe.

The first time this phenomenon occurred involving any real numbers was in the
1989 European election when 115,028 Scots - largely disgruntled Conservative and
Liberal Democrat supporters, I suspect - voted for the Greens. The Greens!

It was a protest vote, of course, by Tories who could not stomach the thought of
voting for the Lib Dems and vice versa. Just to put the record straight, I am
ashamed to say that I was one of them but, they say, it is better to admit one's
guilt before someone else plucks the skeleton out of the cupboard.

This week, I predict, the minority parties such as the Scottish Socialists, the
Greens and the UK Independence Party (UKIP) will do rather well for just those
reasons: a protest no one thinks really matters and the very human trait of
wanting to upset the apple cart, but not so as to rock society's foundations to
the core.

But allow to me to make a plea: do not be seduced by a mischievous sense of
recklessness with your vote. It will only end in one or two, or even more, of
these lunatic fringes being able to crow for the next five years that they are a
government in the making. Do not give them the slightest encouragement.

First, let us deal with the Scottish Socialist Party. Led by Tommy Sheridan,
this party's policies would ruin Scotland's already shaky economic stability.
Like the Greens, the Socialists support independence, which would mean a bunch
of people with an arguable claim to basic mathematics having complete control
over taxation.

LIKE the Greens, who would take us back to a pre-industrialised, agrarian state
that would make 1970s Albania look forward-thinking, anyone remotely interested
in promoting wealth (a dirty word) would leave the country.

Similarly, anyone interested in making anything without total workers' control
(see:

1930s USSR and Stalin's calamitous five-year plans) would be on the first plane
out.

Those who would be left (airway companies would stop operating to and from
Scotland almost immediately either party achieved power) would be taxed
outrageously to pay for every one of Mr Sheridan's, and his political
commissars', populist, envy-driven, vote-winning dreams. There is not much
between the Socialists and the Greens, although the Greens' logo, a sunflower,
is slightly more reassuring than the red star of the Socialists, the emblem
which, as our Mr Hickey pointed out recently, adorned the Mig fighter jets
readied to strafe Budapest in 1956.

Then there is the UKIP. Frankly, any party who parades Joan Collins as a star
adherent must be either desperate or a trifle too complacent. Ms Collins,
incidentally, has never voted before, but, presumably, will on Thursday, but I
wouldn't bank on it.

The UKIP wants a return to a kind of English never-never-land in which church
bells tolled over village cricket matches and there was no such thing as garlic.

So, does the British National Party, but in an altogether more aggressive and
sinister form. Perhaps the kind of Britain there might have been if Oswald
Mosley and his Blackshirts had been more successful: repatriation for everyone
without four grandparents of pure British blood.

Apart from those, there is Operation Christian Vote and Scottish Wind Watch. The
former wants to outlaw abortions and human embryo research and the latter,
which, admittedly, sounds rather an attractive proposition, is fighting against
the plethora of windfarms that are creeping across Scotland and gradually
destroying the countryside for minimal gain in energy.

Last and, frankly, least - well, so far as his party organisation is concerned -
is the lone Independent candidate, Fergus Tait, an affable looking chap who
promises to be beholden to no one. There will, for obvious reasons, be no party
Whip telling Mr Tait how to vote should he get into the European Parliament.

No, do not be tempted into mischief. I, for one, have regretted my caprice of
1989 ever since. Vote for one of the mainstream parties.

For all their faults, they are at least living in the 21st century.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              263 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 7, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Why Robert Kilroy-Silk could kill or cure the Tories
Conservatives could turn the Ukip nuisance to their advantage

BYLINE: Malcolm Rifkind

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1123 words


Meetings of the council of ministers in Brussels are not the most amusing of
gatherings but, occasionally, there is a glorious exception. In the 1980s I
attended such a meeting where the Greek foreign minister, Yannis
Haralambopoulos, was making a passionate speech, in Greek, in favour of Spanish
and Portuguese membership of the EU.

The interpreter, translating the Greek minister into English, quoted him as
using the phrase "putting a Spaniard in the works". To this day, the poor
minister is probably unaware of why his serious remarks led to uncontrolled
hilarity among all the Anglophones present.

There is now increasing speculation that the United Kingdom Independence party
is about to put a spanner in the works at the European elections on Thursday. If
it does, it is likely to be a very small step for mankind but it could be a
significant nuisance for all the major political parties in the United Kingdom.

For the government, a substantial Ukip vote would demonstrate that little or no
progress has been made in the past seven years to persuade the British public to
learn to love the European Union. Prospects for positive endorsement in
referendums either of the euro or of the new EU constitution would be minimal.
Britain, under Blair, would be seen throughout Europe still to be as much part
of the awkward squad as it was under Major and Thatcher.

For the Tories, Ukip success would be at their short-term electoral expense.
Most Ukip voters would have been more likely to have been Tory than Labour
supporters. Such a result would, therefore, reduce any Tory lead over Labour and
make more difficult Michael Howard's task of persuading the British public that
he can win the general election.

The most embarrassing outcome could be for the Liberal Democrats. They have
hoped that anger over Iraq would swell their vote to new heights. Now the
opinion polls are suggesting that they might even be pushed into a humiliating
fourth place by an advancing Ukip.

How significant is all this? The first point to make is that British public
opinion has not changed: opinion against the EU has not hardened and support for
British withdrawal has not increased. What we have seen is an impressive media
operation by Ukip's backers to persuade the Europhobe part of the electorate
that voting Ukip is a cost-free way of expressing their feelings and putting
pressure on both Labour and the Tories.

Their methods are not new, and often work, but only in the short-term. Find some
high-profile celebs, like Joan Collins, and some retired MPs and peers with
nothing to lose, release their names gradually as election day gets closer, and
create the impression of a new, dynamic political momentum. If this hasn't been
the brainchild of Max Clifford I will eat my lederhosen.

There is not much the Labour party or the Lib Dems can do about it, except hope
that the Tories lose more votes than they do. For the Conservatives, however,
the problem is more complex. To treat Ukip as other than a bunch of lightweights
and dilettantes would be a serious over-reaction. Ukip's own founder, Alan Sked,
has been scathing about his erstwhile colleagues and advised the public to be
grown-up and vote Tory.

However, while it is entirely legitimate to describe Kilroy-Silk, Joan Collins
and Max Clifford as political gadflies and lightweights, one cannot rubbish
Ukip's central argument that total withdrawal from the European Union must be an
option for all its member states. It is, clearly, one that attracts a small but
not insignificant minority of the public. As Simon Jenkins has argued, "Ukip has
offered Britain a rare chance to vote on Britain's relations with Europe."

Michael Howard's response to this dilemma has been exemplary. He has, logically
and rather mischievously, positioned the Conservatives as the "middle way" on
Europe. At one end of the spectrum it is undeniable that both government and Lib
Dems favour much greater loss of British sovereignty to Brussels. Both support
abolition of the pound and adoption of most, if not all, of the Giscard
constitution. At the other end of the spectrum is Ukip calling for Britain to
leave the EU regard- less of the consequences for our interests, influence and
economic prospects.

The Tory alternative, supporting a more flexible Europe, where each country has
the right to decide on the extent to which it involves itself in further
integration, is an entirely sensible approach to an EU which already has more
than two dozen members and is likely to grow further. If (and it's a big if) the
Tories can persuade the public that this middle way could be delivered by a
future Conservative government, they would reap substantial electoral dividends.

There is one further reason why Ukip's success could, unexpectedly, benefit the
Tories and scupper Blair. Central to Labour's strategy has been the portrayal of
the Conservatives as "extreme" on Europe. Blair, Straw and a whole cohort of
Labour ministers have been arguing that the Tories really want to withdraw
Britain from the European Union and that supporting the government on the euro
and the new European constitution is the only moderate alternative.

This argument was always bogus, but Ukip's emergence has made it obvious to
Labour propagandists that the tactic won't work. Far from being the extremists,
the Tories are the new flexible pragmatists, far more in tune with mainstream
British public opinion than either Blair or Kilroy-Silk. I don't suppose this
was part of Max Clifford's plans, but it's a funny old world.

So, the Tories must keep their cool. They must acknowledge that leaving the EU
is, of course, an option for Britain but one that remains both foolish and
unnecessary. And they must gently remind some of their fainthearted supporters
of the lesson of 1997. For several years hardline Eurosceptics within the party
had undermined John Major's government because they felt it was too pragmatic on
European issues.

They resisted the pleas from ministerial colleagues, including Michael Howard,
that by discrediting their own party they would bring comfort to Tony Blair and
make inevitable a Labour government far more willing to surrender our
sovereignty and kowtow to Brussels. Every vote that went to Goldsmith's
Referendum party made Blair and the Labour party more secure. Every vote that
goes to Kilkroy-Silk's Ukip is likely to have the same effect. Those who don't
learn the lessons of history are destined to repeat them.

Malcolm Rifkind was defence secretary from 1992-95 and foreign secretary from
1995-97. He will be the Tory party candidate for Kensington and Chelsea at the
next general election

comment@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 7, 2004

Elections June 2004: Lacklustre campaign leaves Tories on back foot: As parties
step up their efforts in the last days before voting, one contender declares
himself above the fray

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 555 words


Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, was yesterday forced to deny his
party's European election campaign had flopped amid growing signs he will fail
to deliver a resounding mid-term blow to the government this week.

Polls released today showed that of those "very likely" to take part in the
European elections, 26% would vote for the Conservatives - only two points ahead
of Labour and five ahead of the UK Inde-pendence party. The Liberal Democrat
party was fourth on 13 points, suggesting its campaign centring on opposition to
the war in Iraq had been less popular than the straight-forward EU withdrawal
message preached by Robert Kilroy-Silk, Joan Collins and the assembly of former
Tory politicians inside Ukip.

The internet poll conducted by YouGov for the Daily Telegraph shows Labour ahead
by two points among those saying they would definitely vote, a figure dismissed
by Labour high command.

But a second poll published at the weekend and carried out by ICM gave Ukip just
4%. It showed the Eurosceptic party was taking votes equally from all three main
parties, and put the Tories on 33%, Labour on 28% and the Lib Dems on 26%.

Tony Blair and his deputy, John Prescott, have both conceded that Iraq is
casting a shadow over the government. Party strategists put the prime minister's
unpopularity rela-tive to his government almost entirely down to the war.

Mr Blair said yesterday his unusual brand of progressive politics was also a
factor: "I think my problem in a sense in politics has always been that I have
got a very, very clear view . . . and some of that crosses traditional
left-right lines. When that happens people say, 'Ah, well you're not really a
politician of principle'."

Mr Howard will return to the south-west tonight with a speech on Europe in a bid
to regain monopoly control of the Eurosceptic vote. Yesterday he was forced to
deny claims by Lord Tebbit that he had led a "beige campaign" without
definition.

He also had to endure an attack by the former shadow cabinet minister David
Curry, who claimed the Tories had "teed up" the Ukip vote. "The eternal mantra
about the imminent arrival of the European superstate in some political
armageddon sounds more like Lord of the Rings than European reality," Mr Curry
said.

Mr Howard denied his campaign had been bland but admitted the party had to do
more, saying: "You will find in the next few months that we will produce
probably a more detailed policy agenda than any recent opposition has at this
stage in the parliament."

But Labour will reflect its delight at what it regards as Mr Howard's bungled
campaign by producing a poster with a picture of the Tory leader alongside the
words: "Poll Tax. Cuts. Splits on Europe. No Change There Then."

They believe the decision to promise a referendum on the European constitution
deprived the Tories of their chief campaign theme and left them vulnerable to
the Ukip challenge.

Mr Blair will be in the West Midlands this week campaigning on capital
investment in schools before flying to the US for a G8 summit. He will hear the
first local election results as he flies back on Thursday night, and will be in
the capital on Friday to hear the expected news of the re-election of Ken
Livingstone as mayor.

guardian.co.uk/politics/ elections2004


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              265 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 7, 2004, Monday

BLAIR ADMITS EUROPE AND IRAQ WILL COST LABOUR VOTES

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF AND JAMES BURLEIGH

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 199 words


TONY BLAIR admitted yesterday that his decision to support President George Bush
over Iraq will cost him votes in this week's elections and was a "problem" for
the party.

It also emerged that many traditional Conservative voters are transferring their
allegiance to the United Kingdom Independence Party, according to a recent poll.
The YouGov poll showed that 25 per cent of Tory voters have already defected or
will soon defect to the UKIP.

The Prime Minister, in an interview with Radio 4's The World This Weekend,
downplayed expectations of a breakthrough in the European, London and local
elections on Thursday, and said Iraq was "always going to be difficult" for
Labour.

He acknowledged that voters felt disillusioned over his policy on Iraq and they
may not turn out to vote. Sources close to Mr Blair said that the anti-vote on
Iraq and Europe was also likely to turn out in large numbers while Labour voters
may decide not to turn out to vote.

An ICM poll of 202 marginal constituencies found that Mr Blair could gain a 107
majority for a third term, down from 165 at the last election. If Gordon Brown
was leader, Labour seats would rise in marginal areas.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              266 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 7, 2004, Monday

LETTER: A PASSION FOR EUROPE

BYLINE: ANTHONY MORRIS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 171 words


Sir: Is it too late, at the end of a practically non-existent European election
campaign, to ask our political leaders to speak up on what should be the
foremost issue: whether or not a real political commitment to the EU and closer
integration will help our security in an ever more hostile and dangerous world?

Alone, our influence on increasingly unilateral and wanton US policies will be
minimal. We Europeans are all in the same boat - whether it be the dangers of
terrorism, threats to the environment or the Middle Eastern quagmire into which
we have allowed ourselves to become bogged down. In these and many other areas
we should be enthusiastically contributing to common policies and helping Europe
to become a benign global power.

Yet, to date, it is Ukip and the Eurosceptics - who seem to regard European
integration with much the same hostility they entertain for al-Qa'ida - who are
making the running. Our political leaders will have a lot to answer for.

ANTHONY MORRIS

Folkestone, Kent

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              267 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 7, 2004, Monday

LETTER: A PASSION FOR EUROPE

BYLINE: H TREVOR JONES

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 22 words


Sir: Why does the Ukip put up candidates for a European Parliament it doesn't
support?

H TREVOR JONES

Guildford, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              268 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 7, 2004, Monday

LABOUR POLL LEAD

SECTION: 1 Star Slip Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 27 words


LABOUR (26 per cent) lead the Tories by two points in the run up to Thursday's
local elections with the UKIP (19 per cent) in third, says a YouGov survey.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              269 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 7, 2004

KILROY MP PLAN

LENGTH: 26 words


Axed chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk, 61, yesterday said he may stand as an MP
to lead the UK Independence Party into the next general election.


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              270 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 7, 2004, Monday

Labour set for severe losses on all sides

BYLINE: Jill Sherman, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 634 words


LABOUR is heading for huge losses in many of its inner-city heartlands in the
council elections on Thursday, with gains split between the Tories and the
Liberal Democrats.

Hundreds of seats are likely to change hands, with Labour set to lose up to 400
and to see its share of the vote plummet to below 30 per cent. The Lib Dems are
on course to sweep up seats in Labour urban areas in the North with the Tories
likely to gain inner-city seats in the South and the Midlands.

But the combination of council, European and London mayoral elections has made
it almost impossible to make predictions about June 10 and the chaos of postal
ballots has muddied the picture further.

The big test for Michael Howard will be whether his party can make any advance
in the North where the Tories have hardly any representatives. Tony Blair's
position will look distinctly uncomfortable if Labour loses any of its big
northern metropolitan councils such as Newcastle upon Tyne or Leeds. Mr Blair is
counting on a big turnout in the four all-postal ballot regions to boost the
Labour vote.

Some 4,807 council seats are up for election in England, including all 2,445 in
the 36 metropolitan districts. A further 1,264 seats are being contested in the
22 Welsh councils.

Dozens of councils where control is already finely balanced are expected to
change party hands or move into no overall control. But the three parties are
sending their big guns into about 20 councils where big upsets are possible.

The Lib Dems have their eyes set on taking both Newcastle upon Tyne and
Sheffield from Labour but are also expecting to gain Pendle and Kirklees from no
overall control. Local party campaigners are predicting a gain in St Albans
which is also hung.

The Tories will do well in affluent and urban areas in the South but will look
more convincing if they pick up seats in the North. The party is reticent about
its targets but campaigners are out in force in Trafford, Dudley, Coventry and
Calderdale where they hope to take control.

Michael Howard has also made visits to Birmingham, a three-way split where the
Tories and the Lib Dems are expected to benefit from Labour losses. The Tories
may also do well in Bury and Bradford, Harrogate and Swindon.

Labour has put its main efforts into defending its key councils but it could
lose overall control of Newcastle, Leeds, Wolverhampton and North Tyneside. It
could also lose control of Cardiff, and sustain big losses to independent
candidates throughout Wales.

June 10 may also see the end of traditional two-party politics, with minor
parties and independent candidates making big inroads into the Labour and Tory
vote.

The UKIP, the BNP, the Greens and Respect (George Galloway's anti-war party) are
expected to chip away at the two main parties from the far Right and the far
Left in both the European and local elections. Independent candidates, who took
control of Mansfield last year, are also fielding a record number of candidates
this year, after signs that local issues have a bigger impact than national
policies.

Tony Travers, local government expert at the London School of Economics, said
that Labour and the Tories might only pick up 62-63 per cent of the vote between
them.

In the past they would have picked up 85-90 per cent. "This begs the question as
to whether we are beginning to see a serious erosion of two big coalitions as
political parties. The UKIP and the nationalist parties are nibbling at the far
Right of the Tories while the Greens and Respect are threatening the Left of
Labour. The Liberal Democrats are nibbling at both main parties in the middle."

While the minor parties might not pick up councils, they could split the vote in
hundreds of wards and overturn expected results.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              271 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 7, 2004, Monday

Kilroy-Silk considers becoming leader of the UKIP

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 315 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK said yesterday that he was being urged to become leader of
the UK Independence Party.

The former chat show host's decision to stand as a European Parliament candidate
is being credited with giving the anti-EU party a boost before the poll on June
10.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said he had considered taking charge of the party and standing
for Westminster at the next election.

The former Labour MP's revelations may upset Roger Knapman, the little-known
current leader and a former Tory whip.

Party sources within the UKIP later confirmed that Mr Kilroy-Silk's potential
leadership would be on the agenda when senior figures met this week to plan the
party's future. The source said: "It is undeniable that he has made a pretty
significant impact on the way the party is perceived by voters. He has a profile
that few can deny."

Mr Kilroy-Silk, dismissed by the BBC for newspaper comments about Arabs, was
questioned about his future on GMTV's Sunday Programme.

He said: "You are right to ask those questions and I would be foolish and I
would be lying if (I said) they have not been raised with me by people in the
party, both Westminster and the leadership, and I have not given some thought to
them. Of course I have but it is really, honestly, one step as a time. We have
to see what happens on June 10 and after that we will make decisions about the
future."

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that if he was elected, he would not attend the European
Parliament "if I can help it".

But he did not rule out claiming an MEP's salary. He also claimed that Michael
Howard's attack on the UKIP was a "spectacular own goal". Mr Howard, the
Conservative leader, last week branded the UKIP's anti-European Union stance
"extremist".

Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "We're going to shake up the Establishment. They won't know
what's hit them on June 10, I promise you."


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              272 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                  June 6, 2004

WHY EUROPE IS TURNING EUROSCEPTIC

LENGTH: 1369 words


With a supermodel, a porn star, two astronauts and several Polish Big Brother
contestants among the candidates vying for seats in the European Parliament, it
is little wonder that few will take this week's European election seriously.
Most voters are understandably dismissing the election as irrelevant and boring;
with party lists largely made up of failed national politicians, power-hungry
apparatchiksEand other non-entities, even those who do vote will have little
idea whom they are sending to Brussels and Strasbourg, a situation compounded by
complicated voting systems.

In theory, between 10 and 13 June, 350m voters in the 25 European Union (EU)
member states will be eligible to elect 732 members to the European Parliament;
in practice, the polls suggests under half will bother to take part. Usually,
such mass apathy could be expected to allow governing elites to tighten their
grip on power; fortunately, it seems that this time will be different, so much
so that the elections could prove to be a major turning point in the EU's
50-year history of ever-closer integration.

Governing parties are bracing themselves for a mauling from the electorate in
almost every European country. The main winners will be small eurosceptic
parties that reject the proposed European constitution and the corruption,
remoteness and lack of democracy that characterise EU institutions; other groups
and individuals seen to champion ordinary people against the political and
bureaucratic class will also benefit. It is increasingly likely that these
parties will hold the balance of power in the European Parliament between the
main centre-right and centre-left parties, giving them a real opportunity to
influence legislation and evenEstem its tide.

In addition to electing perfectly respectable eurosceptic candidates and protest
parties, there will sadly also be a darker side to this anti-establishment
backlash, with several rabidly anti-immigration, racist and quasi-fascist
parties expected to gain ground, as well as a few extreme-left parties harking
back to Stalin and Mao. But while extremist groups are unlikely to make the kind
of breakthrough many have feared, their rise is no less worrying and must
urgently be fought, not least by ditching the flawed, social-democratic
consensus policies that have dominated the EU for decades.

Sky-high unemployment, weak economic growth, a collapsing social fabric, rampant
crime, an increasingly entrenched dependency culture and declining educational
standards have fostered a climate that breeds demagogues such as France's
Jean-Marie Le Pen. Until these problems are tackled head-on and governments
admit that they have got it wrong, it is a sad reality that more voters will
turn to extremist parties, as the rise of the racist British National Party
demonstrates all too well.

With the exception of Spain, where the new government is still enjoying a
honeymoon, and one or two other countries, governing parties are on course to be
defeated around Europe, though nowhere as badly as in Poland. According to a
poll by EOS Gallup, Poland's ruling Democratic Left Alliance (SLD), and its
spin-off, the Social Democratic party, are set to be all but wiped out: the two
parties could receive only 6% of the vote each. By contrast, the hardline
anti-EU Self-Defence party, headed by the populist Andrzej Lepper, is expected
to win 12 seats after successfully campaigning against the Common Agricultural
Policy and the European constitution. According to some polls, eurosceptics and
extreme nationalists could end up grabbing half of Poland's 54 MEPs (members of
the European parliament), a result which will make it very difficult for a
Polish government to sign up to the constitution.

In the UK, the cosy three-party system could be shaken up by a strong
performance from the United Kingdom Independence Party, which could grab between
7% and 15% of the vote, as furious voters use the opportunity as a
quasi-referendum on Britain's relationship with the EU, on which they have not
been consulted since 1975. In the Czech Republic, the opposition Civic
Democratic Party (ODS), a party which combines radical free-market policies and
strong opposition to the EU (and from which the British Conservatives could
learn at lot from), is ahead in the polls on 27%, with the main government
Social Democrat party trailing in third place with 16%.

In Germany, chancellor Gerhard Schroder's party will deservedly be punished for
his abysmal failure to reverse his country's economic decline; Jacques Chirac's
centre-right will suffer the same fate in France. In Italy, Silvio Berlusconi
will also be dealt a bitter blow, though he at least has been trying (without
much success) to reform the country's pension system and cut taxes.

While opposition to aspects of EU policy will play a role in the election,
especially in Germany where the euro remains extremely unpopular, openly
eurosceptic parties will have only a limited impact in all three countries.
However, popular support for ever-greater European integration is waning in
other countries too. The murder of Pim Fortuyn, a maverick Dutch politician, two
years ago, has not prevented more mainstream politicians from adopting some of
his eurosceptic rhetoric.

Max van den Berg, the Dutch Labour Party's leading candidate, has accused the EU
of going crazy; Jules Maaten, head of the liberal VVD Party, is campaigning on a
"Europe with moderation" platform; andEin an important move last week, Bernard
Bot, the Dutch foreign minister, said that he believed that EU integration had
reached the maximum level acceptable by Europe's populations. Breaking the
unspoken rule among continental politicians that nobody should ever call for a
reversal of the process of European integration, however modest, Mr Bot asked
for several powers to be repatriated to national governments, including cultural
policy and parts of the Common Agricultural Policy.

Coming a mere three weeks before his government takes over the EU's rotating
presidency, the speech was received angrily at the European Commission, despite
its relatively modest and perfectly sensible proposals. While Mr Bot then spoilt
it all by repeating his support for the European constitution, despite the fact
that the new treaty would lead to a further centralisation of powers, at least
he was on the right tracks.

The only way for Europe's politicians to regain the confidence of their
electorates is to start to deliver, especially when it comes to jobs and
economic growth. To do that, politicians of both left and right must finally
accept that highly-taxed, highly-regulated, big-government economies of the kind
the European constitution would entrench further simply do not deliver jobs and
prosperity. To make free-market reforms possible, many of the powers handed over
to Brussels in previous treaties will have to be transferred back to national
parliaments; this should be accompanied by a bonfire of regulations, including
many of the rules pushed under the guise of furthering the single market.

At the same time, Western Europeans must swallow their pride and learn from the
EU's new member states, as well as from Ireland, which have pioneered remarkably
successful supply-side reforms. Estonia, for example, charges a 0% corporation
tax on reinvested profits. Latvia and Lithuania charge company tax at 15% and
Poland 19%, making their economies more attractive for companies wishing to
invest there.

Among the most recent countries to join the tax-cutting camp is Finland, which
has just announced it intends to slash company tax from 29% to 26%. Some
countries, of course, will never accept the laws of economics: in response to
these cuts, France, Germany and Sweden started lobbying for a minimum harmonised
rate of company tax across the EU, probably set at 20% of corporate profits.
This sort of narrow-minded, fortress Europe mentality is the exact opposite of
what is required to assure Europe's long-term future. As politicians across the
EU will forcibly be reminded this week, tired old answers will simply no longer
do. Let us hope that they finally learn their lesson.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2004 Sunday Business Group

                              273 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

A RULE WRITTEN IN SEPIA - NOSTALGIA SELLS NEWSPAPERS;
 SPURRED ON BY STARKEY AND SCHAMA, EDITORS KNOW THAT HISTORY, SUITABLY

BYLINE: PETER COLE Our back pages: reprinted versions of their contemporary
coverage by the Mail' and Mirror' speak volumes

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1057 words


I wonder how much the saturation coverage, in both the press and the broadcast
media, of the 60th anniversary of D-Day reflects the interests of the public. We
hear much, during the intrusive revelations of the private lives of celebrities
and royals, about the difference between public interest and the interest of the
public, or between what is important and what fascinates. D-Day plus 60 is hard
to categorise.

The mythical visitor from Mars, dropping in for a snapshot of Britain over the
past week, would identify a nation obsessed with well past triumphs, a tennis
player who had never won a major title, a tacky television show called Big
Brother and hints that there might be some important elections coming up. But
the Martian's overwhelming impression would have been of the first of those, and
it would strike her as just the same as stories her grandfather told her about a
visit he paid to Britain many, many years ago.

The generation born very soon after the Second World War ended, of which I am
one, is approaching the same age as D-Day, and our awareness of the war is built
on growing up in its aftermath with parents and relations for whom it was
reality. Opinion polls show enormous ignorance of the war, and D-Day in
particular, among today's teenagers and many older than them. But when I read
those figures I think about being a teenager in the '60s and wonder how I would
have impressed with my knowledge of a war fought 60 or so years earlier, like
the Boer war. Not much, I imagine.

Newspaper editors are not a sentimental bunch. Their contentment, and their
futures, depend on figures on balance sheets, and they pride themselves on
understanding their readers and knowing what they want. The collective judgement
of these editors is that vast coverage of the D-Day anniversary will sell
newspapers. This is particularly true of the editors of the Daily Mirror (which
actually doesn't have one), the Daily Mail, and The Daily Telegraph. Just as the
judgement of the editors of The Sun, Mirror and Daily Star is that pages on the
washed-up losers of Big Brother will boost their declining circulations.

But these are contrasting judgements. So what is it all about? An upmarket view
would be that newspapers are about educating as well as informing and
entertaining, that editors, who do not consistently keep this role at the front
of their minds, see it as an opportunity to teach the under- informed about the
triumphs of 60 years ago. They know that history, suitably dramatised and sexed
up by Starkey or Schama, is rather fashionable just now. The regional press has
long known that nostalgia sells and all the best local papers have their "sepia"
pages. D-Day plus 60 has been just as big in the locals as the nationals.
Travelling around over the past week I have read D-Day pages, essentially
interviews with veterans who were there, in The Journal, Newcastle, the
Lancaster Guardian, and the Manchester Evening News.

The Daily Mail has always traded on its version of nostalgia, "think pieces" on
how things continue to get worse, from children's behaviour to trains, from
respect for elders to education, from local services to godliness. D-Day fits.
It portrays a nation united in adversity, a nation leading the world, a nation
winning, a nation subjugating self to what must be done, a nation driven by
sacrifice rather than greed.

The heroes interviewed in all these pieces, the old men who were there, some of
whom went back this weekend, are consistent in their modesty, their rejection of
the soubriquets of modern journalism, where heroes, martyrs, miracles and
triumphs are every day's headlines.

Some newspapers, particularly the Mail and Mirror, have been publishing reprints
of their own contemporary coverage of D-Day and the days either side. It has
been as fascinating in terms of newspaper history as of military history. (Put
to one side that the Mail's facsimiles are tabloid pages, whereas the paper was
then broadsheet!). The busy black and white pages give the feel of the time. The
reporting is more measured, so unlike the shrill triumphalism of the
presentation of much of the news in the two Iraq wars.

We learn too that some things do not change. All the fuss over "embedded"
reporters during the last Iraq war seem overblown when we read the D-Day
dispatches from often unnamed correspondents moving with the troops. And
interesting too to note the unquestioning nature of the reports. Here was a
press, and a people, largely undivided about what was being done, what had to be
done as most saw it. Mirror '44 was a very different animal from Mirror '04. But
then they were very different wars.

The coverage of the past week was put into sharp relief for me when I heard a
Radio 5 interview with a young German journalist about the attention being given
to D-Day plus 60 in her country. She had to admit, she said, that she had been
unaware of the anniversary, and knew little about D- Day. For papers like the
Daily Mail celebrating D-Day is celebrating a time when Britain did not need to
be part of Europe; it simply needed to save it.

F F F

Yes, there are elections on Thursday, plenty of them. With the exception of Ken
Livingstone's defence of his mayorship (and a London-centred national press
regarding this as the only significant election), the coverage has been sparse
in the extreme. All we have had is free publicity for the UKIP, Kilroy and
Collins and the fuss about postal ballots. By my reckoning about 10,000 words on
D-Day for every one on "super" Thursday.

F F F

The celebration in The Daily Telegraph of Boris Johnson, shadow arts minister,
editor of The Spectator, Telegraph columnist and MP for Henley, continues. Last
week a picture half of page two deep of the celebrity politician and journalist
on a bike. Interesting story from The Spectator, used more modestly in other
papers, about Blair aide Jonathan Powell saying Gordon Brown would never be
Prime Minister. But why the huge picture of Boris? Why no mention of Johnson's
relationship with the Telegraph? And why no mention of the Telegraph's
relationship with The Spectator. Murdoch titles are meticulous in mentioning
common ownership when referring, say, to Sky TV.

Peter Cole is professor of journalism at the University of Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              274 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

INTERVIEW: HERE COMES TROUBLE;
 PUNCHED A MAN? HAD A LOVE CHILD? ARE YOU A BULLY? ROBERT KILROY- SILK

BYLINE: ROBERT CHALMERS Vote for me: Kilroy-Silk at the launch of the UK
Independence Party's campaign in London last month; I'm listening: Robert
Kilroy-Silk on the show which made him a household name - and from which he was
unceremoniously fired in January; and with his wife, Jan, earlier this yearThink
on: Kilroy-Silk insists that, whether he wins a seat in Europe or not, he has
not given up on his television careerPortrait by David Sandison

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10,11,13,14

LENGTH: 3877 words


Looking through my list of questions, sitting on the train to Buckinghamshire, I
find my thoughts turning to the men Robert Kilroy-Silk has punched. They
include, back in 1985, David Rees, a guest at a Bournemouth boarding house who
reportedly kept on talking while the then Labour member was trying to watch the
news in the television room ("MP Knocked Me Through Window"). Then, in the same
year, there's a scuffle with fellow politician Jeremy Corbyn ("I didn't really
hit him," Kilroy-Silk said at the time. "If I had, he'd have stayed down"). And,
in 1991, John Edwards, a guest on the Kilroy show, who had rapped the presenter
on the head with documents shortly before his host let fly. More recently, the
writer AA Gill has claimed that Kilroy-Silk kicked him. "Gill is a pansy," the
former presenter responded. "He is effete. He is an effeminate irrelevance." It
got to the point that, when I came across an old headline in the Today newspaper
- "Kilroy Hits Fifty In Spain" - it took me a moment to realise it referred to
his birthday.

And yet, curiously enough, I tell Kilroy-Silk, as we shake hands in the
sitting-room of Beel House, his estate just outside Amersham, my respect for him
was enhanced long ago by another punch - one that doesn't appear in the
cuttings.

In the early 1990s, I explain, I was having dinner with the late television
producer David Jones - a socialist of the old school, and maverick producer of
World in Action and Alan Bleasdale's GBH - and telling him how I wasn't an
unqualified fan of the Kilroy show.

"Whatever you say about Kilroy-Silk," Jones told me, "you have to understand
that he does care. Passionately. I was once at a dinner party with him," he
added, "when somebody made this racist remark. Other people round the table
shrugged it off, or pretended they hadn't heard. Then he repeated it.
Kilroy-Silk didn't say anything; he just got up and hit him."

"Is this story true?"

"Yes," says Kilroy-Silk.

"Who did you hit?"

"I can't remember," he replies, with the look of a man who can.

"What was it that he said?"

"I can't remember that either."

It's five months since the Sunday Express published his now infamous column,
which described "Arabs" as "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and
women-repressors". Under the headline "We Owe Arabs Nothing", the article began
by dismissing the contribution of Arabic nations to the world, prompting
journalists and contributors to letters pages to question who has contributed
more to civilisation - the Arabic peoples, or Kilroy- Silk.

"It's a close one," wrote one commentator. "The Arabs have given us numbers, the
modern alphabet and the pendulum. Kilroy has given us a chat show, a newspaper
column and a strangely orange sun tan."

The rabid tone of his Sunday Express column precipitated one of the most
dramatic implosions of a media career in history.

"When I met the BBC to discuss what had happened," recalls Kilroy-Silk, 62, "I
didn't just sit there, like a supplicant. I told them they were prats to their
face."

It was a candid strategy, and it got results: not only was Kilroy-Silk fired as
presenter, but his company, which produced Kilroy, has not been retained to make
the show which succeeded it. Kilroy-Silk is now free to devote his energies to
the UK Independence Party, which he represents as a candidate for the East
Midlands in Thursday's European elections.

A fearless conversationalist on the most intimate of subjects when he was on
air, Kilroy-Silk is a different proposition on the other side of a microphone.
He is welcoming, but very guarded. If he remembers a review I wrote, in the
early days of his show, comparing his rigid posture and staccato movements to a
Thunderbirds puppet, he doesn't show it.

If you thought the Kilroy show had put this man beyond caricature, you might
consider visiting robert kilroysilk.com - a website you'd expect to be
administered by him, but which has somehow fallen into the hands of somebody
called "Dogbomb". At one click of the mouse, the site produces parodies of the
startling rhetorical questions Kilroy-Silk used to pose at the start of his
show. They include: "Raped a Midget? Damaged by Spoons? Thought No Meant Yes?
Bisexual Neighbours? Brought up by Badgers? Suspect That You May Die? Too Fat to
Walk? Living in a Cello?" and "Plagued by Big Game?"

But the man I meet at Beel House (a 17th-century property formerly owned by Ozzy
Osbourne) has the urbane composure of the prime minister he once promised he'd
become. (Kilroy-Silk entered Westminster in 1974 and left after 12 years,
exasperated by Militant members, who had been trying to oust him from his seat
at Knowsley, on Merseyside).

He makes an articulate case for UKIP - arguing that a European federal agenda
has been progressed by stealth; that the EU is institutionally corrupt and
undemocratic. There may be people in UKIP eager to deport anybody not born in
the Home Counties, but Kilroy-Silk is not among them.

"I want us to be friends with Spain, say, and Italy. I want us to continue to
trade with them. But I don't want to be governed by them. I want good relations
with my neighbours..." Kilroy-Silk gestures towards the window. "I want to
exchange my honey for their apples."

"Exchange your what?"

"This isn't literally true - it's an analogy."

A few years ago, I tell Kilroy-Silk, I went to a meeting with party sympathiser
Norris McWhirter, who spoke on a UKIP platform only months before his death in
April this year.

"I'd expected McWhirter to be barking," I say, "he wasn't - although a few of
his supporters..."

"Are," interrupts the candidate, with a frank assessment which might surprise
some of his potential voters.

By joining UKIP, Kilroy-Silk becomes the most able member of a coalition which
existed in the Europhile imagination as an alarming bouillabaisse concocted from
the old left of the Labour Party, superannuated actors, mad jingoists,
shepherds, astronomers and golf-club patriots. His arrival has given the
movement focus and momentum, while offering a new platform for Kilroy-Silk's
formidable ego.

To the dismay of his political opponents, this bizarre marriage appears to be
working. The announcement of his candidature boosted UKIP's rating by 10
percentage points. On a recent appearance on Question Time, Kilroy- Silk - if a
little over-exuberant - made Michael Ancram look like a retired accounts clerk
who had stumbled into the studio by mistake, on his way to get his clothes
valued by Antiques Roadshow.

Meeting him face to face, Kilroy's short fuse isn't immediately obvious. But
when he mimics people he dislikes, such as the BBC executives who sacked him, or
others from the "metropolitan elite" (one of the phrases - another is "sloppy
journalism" - that he uses repeatedly), he affects a whining, camp accent which
isn't so much amusing as plain nasty.

Anger is a recurring theme in his life. Did Kilroy-Silk consider that he could
be perceived as a bully?

"Yes," he says, without hesitation. "On the show? Yes. And when I say that, I am
mortified. But I was under enormous pressure. I did three shows a day with no
autocues. When things went wrong I'd say: Why the bloody hell did you do that?'
I would come home and hate myself. One thing I am relieved about is not having
that pressure, and what it did to me as a person."

"He is a very peculiar man," said one former producer on Kilroy. "He had a
tremendous ability to remember where guests would be sitting, and what they were
meant to say. At the same time," the ex-producer added, "I have never worked for
anybody who was such a bully. I have worked for...  my source names two of the
most boorish male presenters on British television but I have never experienced
anything like Kilroy-Silk."

If guests deviated from what they were expected to say, the producer went on,
"he would go absolutely nuts. He would shriek, and shriek, and shriek. The air
was blue.  You haven't given me a fucking programme...' He was nastier to men
than women. You didn't want to go into the production meeting because you knew
you were going to be publicly humiliated."

Kilroy-Silk's fatal article appeared on 4 January 2004. It was very similar to a
column the Sunday Express had published in April 2003. His assistant, Kilroy
says, had accidentally e-mailed the wrong attachment, and nobody at the paper
noticed.

"Robert is not racist at all," the assistant said later. "He employs a black
driver."

He does. At one stage Kilroy-Silk leaves me alone with him for a few minutes,
having barked the warning: "He is a journalist."

"I don't like the way the press keep playing the race card with him," he says .

"Never mind that now," I tell him. "Have you seen him smoking crack?
Cross-dressing? Hanging around with farmyard animals?"

"Not personally," he says. "But if I do, you'll be the first to know."

The arrangement with the Sunday Express, Kilroy-Silk says, was that "not a word,
not a comma, could be changed without my permission".

But the reprise was considerably more offensive, not least because the phrases
"Arab states" and "Arab countries" had given way to the generic term "Arabs".

"I recognised it as mine," says Kilroy, of the second column, which he first saw
on the morning of publication, at his holiday home near Marbella. "But I said,
This is not what I wrote.'"

"And yet you you had an agreement nothing could be altered?"

"The deal is that they don't change anything without checking with me."

The bizarre aspect of this affair, and the one which would be hardest to render
credible, if you were writing all this as fiction, is the question of why
Kilroy-Silk - a man who, by his own account, has never hesitated to chastise
subordinates who have caused him comparatively trivial professional difficulties
- should appear so indifferent about pursuing whoever illicitly altered his
words, precipitating the collapse of his whole career.

"So who changed what you wrote?"

"Sub-editors, I suppose," says Kilroy-Silk. "I am blaming them. Then they said:
It wasn't us.'"

"As I understand it, the Sunday Express journalists maintain that things
happened exactly the other way round; they say that the first version of your
article - the one published in April 2003 - had, when first filed, been just as
inflammatory as the second, but that they, the sub-editors, had toned the April
column down."

"Well," he says, "you can judge it. It's not that."

The episode, he reflects, "cost me my job".

"Did you go berserk?"

"Yes."

"Did you hit somebody this time?"

"No. Actually I lied to you. I didn't go berserk, at all. With anybody. I have
been remarkably sanguine about it. I don't know why, but I have."

In the offending column, Kilroy-Silk wrote that "there could be few starker
demonstrations of the difference between Britain and the US and the Arabs than
the manner in which they treat their civilians and their dead... who says that
all cultures are morally equal?"

"I hold by that."

"And yet, as I read that quote out now, the images in my mind are of Americans
laughing at corpses, and naked men being dragged around like dogs."

"No, no, no. Don't tell me about it. It is vile."

"If you want an answer to that question - as to whether all cultures are morally
equal - I'd say, if you are accusing the Arab world of monstrous crimes, those
photographs provide an answer, in spades."

"I would disagree," says Kilroy. "As I said to a woman executive at the BBC, are
you telling me that the Taliban, that represses women, that genitally mutilates
them, represent a culture you'd be happy to live under? What the Americans are
doing is awful. I feel really ill, and sick, about it."

Robert Kilroy-Silk was born into a poor family in Buckingham Street, central
Birmingham. He failed his 11-plus but was accepted as a late entrant to Saltley
Grammar School, where he met his wife, Jan. They married in 1963; she has
supported him with great loyalty ever since: they have two grown-up children,
Natasha, who worked on Kilroy, and Dominic, who served 10 months for mortgage
fraud in the early 1990s - generating one of a series of unfortunate headlines
which have dogged his father over the years. Another involved a Penthouse model,
Elisha Scott. "We met on his show," she told the Sun, in 1990, "then he tried to
get me into a hotel bedroom." Scott alleged that, when she declined, Kilroy-Silk
(who lists his recreations in Who's Who as "Gardening") proposed "a
knee-trembler in the corridor".

His father Billy Silk, a farm worker, was killed in action serving with the
Royal Navy when Robert was 18 months old. His mother then married Billy's best
friend, John Kilroy, creating the foppish surname which, his enemies would say,
the UKIP candidate has gradually grown in to.

If his manner is genteel, his professed allegiances remain determinedly working
class. Once or twice, when recalling his removal from the BBC, his received
pronunciation lapses into the full-on accent of his native Midlands, complete
with dropped h's. When he was a child, he says, in his row of back to backs,
"There were more than six families sharing one lavatory."

"Except it wouldn't have been a lavatory' then, would it?"

"No," replies Kilroy-Silk. "No, it wouldn't. It would have been a toilet. Well,"
he adds, "more of a bog, really."

It was as a boy that he learnt how to fight, at boxing clubs and in Buckingham
Street.

"I remember coming home crying because I had been bullied," he says. "My
stepfather pushed me out the door. He said: Go back. Go back, and hit them.' So
I did. From that moment, I have never been afraid. I got beaten up, but they
didn't bother me again."

"Why not?"

"Because I hurt them. Because I went back."

He studied at the LSE and spent seven years as a lecturer in politics at
Liverpool University before entering parliament aged 32. He became a close ally
of some of the more admirable and distinctive voices in left- wing journalism -
people like David Jones, and their mutual friend the late Tony Bevins, first
political editor of the Independent and one of the great campaigning journalists
of the post-war period. "Bevins was a nihilist," says Kilroy and - using a word
he also likes to apply to himself - "a warrior".

I've brought along a copy of Kilroy-Silk's 1983 political novel The Ceremony of
Innocence; the title is from Yeats's poem "The Second Coming".

"The better-known lines are the next two: The best lack all convictions, while
the worst/Are full of passionate intensity.' Which are you?"

"I have passionate intensity," he replies. "I'm the second kind."

"The worst."

"I am a troublemaker. That's why I am in politics."

It's hard to recognise the idealist who excelled as shadow home-affairs
spokesman in the TV presenter who became so preoccupied with asylum seekers,
adultery, acne, Arabs, and Aids (and we're still on the "A"s). Though his career
might sound like a classic case of the drift to the right which seems as common
an affliction of age as grey hair and liver spots, Kilroy insists he hasn't
changed.

"There is a theme in my life and it is a passion for justice," he says. As a
television presenter, "I was more in touch with real people that I ever was as
an MP".

But prolonged periods in contact with that section of the British public who
enjoy participating in talk shows - a constituency frighteningly energised by
such subjects as wheelie bins, immigration and capital punishment - can do very
strange things to a man. I've met at least three talk-show hosts who, after
spending years orchestrating discussions on these themes, are no longer sane as
the word is generally understood. Many turn to drink; almost all are privately
vitriolic about their serial contributors. "I once arranged an outing for my
regular callers," one radio presenter once told me. "It was like the fishing
trip out of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest."

The sense I get from Kilroy is that he went not mad but native, and has been
gradually permeated by the values of what one producer termed the "crazed old
biddies" who were the mainstay of his fan club.

One well-known BBC figure told me he suspected some at the corporation were
relieved when the Sunday Express affair finished Kilroy, "because there was a
sense that the show was already past its sell-by date". The financial loss to
Kilroy-Silk personally, he added, "must have been colossal. There were Kilroy
cars, which ferried all the guests; Kilroy catering. He paid excellent rates for
producers and editors. His researchers," he added, "were extraordinary."

"Looking back through your Sunday Express columns," I suggest to Kilroy- Silk,
"there are other things that might make some readers uncomfortable. In 1995, you
wrote that: "Muslims everywhere behave with equal savagery. They behead
criminals, stone to death female - only female - adulteresses, throw acid into
the faces of women who refuse to wear the chador, mutilate the genitals of young
women and ritually abuse animals." When you wrote that, did you see yourself as
simply stirring it, in the great tradition of the columnist?"

"I can't remember."

"Because when I relate that to Islamic communities where I've spent any length
of time, it isn't a picture that I recognise."

"No, no, no, no, no. But I wasn't talking about, er... I wasn't trying to say:
This is Islamic society.' What I was saying was, those people do those kind of
things."

"That, Muslims everywhere behave with equal savagery.'"

"Perhaps it was written loosely."

"Sloppy journalism."

"OK. If it is, I put my hand up to it, yeah. I don't mean every Muslim,
obviously."

We talk about some of his other Express columns, including one in which he
complains about a school where children were "having all semblance of an
education destroyed by politicians swamping them with Russians, Romanians,
Palestinians, Arabs, Albanians, Kurds. You name it," it concludes, "they've got
it."

"This is a lot fewer than the number of nationalities at my own children's north
London school. Is this perhaps more polemic?"

"No. If your kids are happy at their school, that's great. I would like that
too... You talk about anger. I do get angry about this," he says, or rather
shouts, "because it is not me - not me, no, no, no, that has to do that, right,
or Tony Blair, or Harriet Harman, who can take their children elsewhere. I can
afford to pay. I am making sure my grandson is getting the best education he
possibly can. It is about fairness. I want the Kurds and the Poles to be given
intensive language skills, so they can catch up quickly. I want him to be a
surgeon!" he exclaims. "The Kurd! I want him to operate on me!"

Kilroy-Silk feels these things passionately; he is as animated now as he used to
be on Kilroy, where he was critical of none more than neglectful parents: the
"Love Rat"; the "Absent Father". One show was called "My Father Let Me Down".
Which must have made it doubly difficult to handle the tabloid headlines which
have appeared periodically since 1995, detailing the supposed privations of his
unacknowledged second son Danny, born to a London teacher.

"I'm not going to say anything about this."

"The subject is generally raised in the context of your television career," I
suggest, "but I think it's also relevant to your return to politics. Isn't there
a valid argument that we should admire politicians - George W Bush is a good
example - precisely for the failings they have honestly confronted in public?
Because when they do that, it stops other people feeling stigmatised?'

"The only people I am accountable to for my private life is my family, and my
family has always known the truth."

"But why not embrace your third child into your family? Why not - in view of
what you were just saying about excellence in education - send him to Cambridge?
Send him to Yale?"

"I have a lot to say on that," he replies. "But not now."

"Is it fair to say," I ask, "that from your cuttings in the tabloid press, you
emerge as quite a bastard?"

"Yes," says Kilroy-Silk.

"There's the 91-year-old man near your estate complaining you left him without
water; Sheila Davies, the woman who looked after your villa in Marbella who
claimed she fell through a rotten balustrade, suffering serious injuries, and
that she was treated shabbily when she asked for compensation." (Davies was
quoted in the Mail on Sunday, in February 2004, as saying that Kilroy-Silk had
called her old, stupid, and "a dickhead"). "You emerge from these reports -
pardon my Spanish - as an utter shit."

"Yes. All I can tell you... I am not going to dignify these stories... It's
strange that they are both over two years old, and yet they surface now."

The danger is, I suggest to Kilroy-Silk, that he could end up being unfairly
perceived like Sonny MacGregor, the character played by Peter Sellers in Mario
Zampi's 1957 masterpiece The Naked Truth - a generous friend of the common
people when on television, privately contemptuous of them off it.

"I haven't seen that film."

"Why do you think these damaging stories are surfacing now?"

"Because people like to kick you when you're down."

"There's down," I suggest to Kilroy-Silk, indicating his house and grounds, "and
there's down."

"OK then, vulnerable. There are always two sides to a story. I don't recognise
myself in a lot of the things I read. It is sloppy journalism."

It was all so different when he appeared in the press years ago, in his days as
a Labour MP, Kilroy-Silk says. "I was bright, then. I was wonderful. As soon as
I've gone into television, I am stupid. I have nothing between my ears. I have a
suntan which has to have come from a sunbed. I dye my hair. I have new teeth.
They wrote all that because it fitted."

I sense it's a welcome distraction to be out on the campaign trail after more
than 20 years; his fearless, up-front approach to constituents, he says, is
proving remarkably successful.

"I'm campaigning in a way that nobody else is," he explains. "I'm in the market
squares. I'm out meeting the people."

Canvassing in Northampton, he bumped into George Robinson, an 85-year- old
Normandy veteran, who was pondering whether to attend a D-Day celebration. "You
should go," Kilroy-Silk told him. "It might be the last thing you do." Rather
than mock him, his public smiled, then laughed, and loved him for it.

"I take terrible risks with strangers. I put my arm round them, and I say: Vote
For Me!'"

"Do they never just tell you to piss off?"

"No. I'm sure somebody will, sooner or later."

After what he was saying about the pressures on a live presenter, it must feel
hugely relaxing to have abandoned all plans to return to television.

"No, I haven't," says Kilroy-Silk.

"You want to do more television?"

"Yes."

"As a presenter?"

"Absolutely." He looks me straight in the eye, then says - with just a flash of
the spirit that took the young contender out of his stepfather's house, to take
a second beating from the bad kids on Buckingham Street - "I'll be back." n

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              275 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

SPORTS ACTIVE: FISHING LINES - WHAT'S GREEN, WOOLLY AND HATES ANGLING?

BYLINE: KEITH ELLIOTT

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 496 words


If you think the BNP have been getting some adverse pre-election publicity, it's
nothing compared to what's been happening to the Green Party over the fishing
vote.

With four million anglers in this country, saying you love fishermen would seem
a fairly logical move for any party at this time. Not the Greens. They may have
shot themselves in the foot (if they didn't disapprove of shooting too) and
ruled themselves out of dozens of seats at a stroke.

The lead story in this week's Angling Times is headlined: Greens Pledge to Kill
Off Angling. Angler's Mail is slightly more circumspect; its headline reads: Do
Greens Support Angling? (answer: no; the party's website states: "The Green
Party is opposed to angling as a blood sport... The Party will promote the
voluntary cessation of angling through public- education programmes."

Angling Times blood and thunders, saying: "The Green Party, widely supported by
anglers due to its environmental stance, will work to stop angling if elected."
Party spokesman Spencer Fitz-Gibbon said: "We would not, however, consider it
reasonable to ban angling. It's very important to distinguish between an
expression of preference and an expression of political intention." But, yes,
the website did say that.

Worse, AT reveal that the party's administrative officer admitted he had relied
on information supplied by Pisces, an extreme animal-rights group, and there
were website links to the Campaign Against Angling. Martin Salter, Labour MP for
Reading West, joined in gleefully: "This policy is a massive vote-loser. If the
Greens weren't so weird and woolly, they would recognise that angling and
anglers are as much a part of the environmental movement as they are." Salter
may have a vested interest as the first parliamentary spokesman for angling, but
at least he goes fishing. Last time I spoke to him, he answered the phone on the
riverbank.

So, who are anglers to vote for? The Conservatives have been very quiet since
touting their daft idea to abolish rod licences (er, what about the pounds 12m
or so it brings in to improve fishery services?), but they are pro-fishing.

The Lib Dems, it seems, couldn't care less either way, stating that they have
"no specific policy on angling". I thought the BNP would have a tough approach
on all the alien species appearing in our waters, especially brown goldfish, but
didn't ask them.

Thursday's Independent made a case for the UK Independence Party. Their MEP
Nigel Farage had sloped off the campaign trail and had gone fishing, the paper
said. But can we really trust any politician? According to the story, Farage had
taken his son bream fishing. He told the paper: "We've had a couple of bass and
about 15 bream."

Funny, that. Bass, you see, are a sea species and bream a freshwater one (unless
we're talking black bream, which are found in the sea). But either way, they
certainly wouldn't all be caught on the banks of a freshwater lake.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              276 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

FOCUS: WHO ARE YOU CALLING AN OPPORTUNIST ?;
  TONY BLAIR SUPPORTED MICHAEL FOOT TO JOIN THE LABOUR PARTY, JOINED

BYLINE: FRANCIS ELLIOTT

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1173 words


The delivery may be measured but the anger is real. "This is the most
opportunist party there has been in modern British politics." Michael Howard
pauses, more to check his rising ire than to formulate the next sentence. "Tony
Blair supported Michael Foot to join the Labour Party, joined CND to progress in
the Labour Party, did over his best friend to lead the Labour Party. Tony Blair
is opportunism personified."

Quite an outburst for a man not known to lose his cool easily - but then it has
been a difficult morning.

We are cocooned inside Mr Howard's battle bus on the road between Gloucester and
Worcester as the campaign trail steers a course through the West Country towards
Thursday's local and European elections.

The day's papers are dominated by two stories - the surprise surge in support
for the United Kingdom Independence Party and the rising price of oil.

That morning the Tory leader has used the second to counter the first when he
aligned himself firmly with those threatening another wave of fuel protests,
saying he would support them if they were "lawful and peaceful".

Two hours after that radio interview the intervention looks like backfiring as
it becomes clear that it has excited newsrooms back in London sensing a possible
gaffe. Speaking to the Independent on Sunday, Mr Howard seems keen to tone down
his support for fuel protesters saying, for instance, that he can't envisage
supporting a new blockade of oil refineries.

"I doubt that a blockade would be lawful . I don't support anything that isn't
lawful or peaceful. It would be much the best thing if the Government says soon
that it's not going to institute the September tax rise."

Raise the possibility that his intervention might be seen as a shade, well
opportunist, and it lights the blue touch paper.

Once he has shredded Mr Blair, the Tory leader adds: "If I don't talk about
things like that, I am not doing my job properly."

Forced on the defensive by the surprise surge in support for UKIP, Mr Howard
denies that he is feeling the heat. "I don't feel any pressure at all. The
elections are a test I accept that. But UKIP, is it a test? I don't think I do
accept that .

The Tory leader dismisses as "complete nonsense from beginning to end" the claim
that he is reaping a eurosceptic whirlwind he stirred up. He says that his party
is no different from Labour in having within its ranks people with widely
differing views on the European Union.

The Tory leader last spoke to Ken Clarke "about three weeks ago," he says. He
admits, however, that the "advisory council" of Mr Clarke, Iain Duncan Smith,
William Hague and John Major, set up as part of an effort to draw a line under
the divisions of the past, has met just once.

"We've had one dinner and we have been trying very hard to arrange another one.
Because John Major and Ken Clarke are out of the country a lot it has been very
hard to fix it, but we are trying to fix it up," he said.

To be fair, Mr Howard hardly has time on his hands himself at the moment,
criss-crossing the country by bus and helicopter. On the stump, he is an
impressive campaigner. On his walkabouts he is energetic and charming. His
silk-lined suit jacket stays on the bus and he takes to the streets in
shirtsleeves, bouncing from one side of a shopping mall to the other
relentlessly pumping hands.

The ponderous Duncan Smith and wispy Hague did not do this so well despite far
more supporting flummery.

He says he enjoys it and the reaction from voters, if warm, does seem to buoy
him up. It's a good show with moments of the sort of slapstick comedy that flows
when professional politics collide with the real world.

Mr Howard risks reminding voters of his Transylvanian heritage when he visits
Gloucester's historic Crypt School and is lucky that the travelling
photographers cannot quite get him and the school's giant sign in the same
frame.

However, he cannot escape the bearded protester with a garlic bulb around his
neck who harries him through the streets of Gloucester shouting the merits of
non-selective education.

In Worcester there is a priceless moment when the Tory leader asks a group of
three girls why they are wearing giant red and white hats.

Incredulous, they fill him in on the small matter of the Euro 2004 football
tournament, England's involvement in it and the national flag.

Mr Howard, a keen Liverpool fan, is momentarily aghast at his mistake but
recovers well to give his analysis of the England team's strike force based on
the Japan friendly (Owen is better than Rooney).

The day that the Independent on Sunday catches up with him there is little
evidence of support for UKIP on the streets in this part of the world.

Save for one Tory voter with a placard and a megaphone, no one but Mr Howard is
talking about the EU. (The would-be heckler is foiled by an enterprising aide
who engages him in earnest debate about the merits of withdrawal which keeps him
from his megaphone during an impromptu speech by the Conservative leader.)

Back on board his campaign bus, complete with the slogan "Putting Britain
first", a regional agent is overheard telling the Tory leader that UKIP is
proving a problem in those areas without council elections. But where there are
no local issues on which to campaign, it seems traditional Tory support is
flirting with outright withdrawal from the EU.

His aides say they detect a strong regional element to UKIP's support. They say
the further north the campaign bus travels, it peters out in favour of the BNP.

The local elections may have been dominated by the fringe parties but Mr Howard
faces a much more formidable foe when it comes to the general election.

The Tory leader is reluctant to speculate on what would happen if Gordon Brown,
not Tony Blair, led Labour into the next national poll, but he insists that he
is prepared for that possibility.

"We will be ready for that ... Brown is not some sort of new figure who has just
arrived on the scene. He's been Chancellor for seven years. He is responsible
for 66 tax rises; he is responsible for the extra burden of regulation and he's
been responsible for many of the Government's failures to reform - so I am not
dismayed of having those arguments."

Mr Howard likes to taunt the Prime Minister with questions about how long he
intends to cling to Number 10. But can he give an assurance that he will fight
the general election after next as the Tory leader?

"If I win. To serve a full term, yes." And if not? "Then there are a huge range
of possibilities and we will have to wait to see what happens."

Street fighting man

Clockwise, from top left: Michael Howard goes on the charm offensive to woo a
potential voter in Gloucester; being interviewed by Francis Elliott on the
battle bus; on familiar ground outside the Gloucester Conservative Club and
hitting the trail in Worcester, where he reaffirmed the party's position on
Europe to the Tory faithful TOBY MADDEN

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              277 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

THE DIRTY MILK BOTTLE UPON THE DOORSTEP

BYLINE: ALAN WATKINS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1108 words


Quite early one morning, not very long ago, when the property market in
Islington was even more mouvemente than it is now, I heard some scratching
noises outside the front door. In my dressing gown I opened it, to find two
youths inspecting their handiwork, a "For Sale" sign on a pole attached to the
railings.

"This house is not for sale," I said. "I know. I live here."

"Oh yes," the more senior of the citizens said, as if to suggest: "We've got a
right one here." He continued: "We're just following our instructions, like,
mate."

"Well," I said, "you can unfollow them. This is my house. I own it."

This invocation of the full majesty of the English law of real property failed
to produce any discernible effect. Clearly, a different approach was called for.

"If you don't take down that bloody sign at once," I said (though in the heat of
the moment I may have used a different adjective), "I'm going to call the
police."

Whether the constabulary would have proved of any help I rather doubt ("Sounds
to me like a civil matter, sir. Nothing to do with us, I'm afraid.") Even so,
their name served its purpose. The two youths busied themselves with the tools
of their trade. Within seconds, the offending sign had been removed to a white
van, illegally parked, as it happened.

The Labour Party in what used to be the People's Republic is availing itself of
similar tactics. It is not putting up "Vote Labour" signs without the occupier's
permission. Even the party of Mr David Blunkett and Mr Tony Blair would not be
prepared to go as far as this in the direction of illegality. No, what is
happening instead is that the posters on poles are being erected at the front of
properties which, so decrepit is their condition, are clearly unoccupied.

It may be, of course, that they are occupied all the time - by Labour voters. It
was long held, not least by professional Labour organisers, that dirty milk
bottles outside the front door provided persuasive evidence of a
Labour-supporting household. If bottles were combined with flaking paintwork and
an unkempt front lawn, the case was complete. You could infallibly tick the
voters off in the appropriate box, though whether they would turn out on the
night if it was raining or there was something on television was another matter
entirely.

The People's Party always took a low, even an embittered, view of those who were
thought of as its "natural" supporters. In succeeding years that view has
become, if anything, even less exalted. That is why the imposition of postal
voting on large parts of the North - exceeding the areas recommended
experimentally by the Electoral Commission - is so odd. It is not surprising
that the authorities have made a mess of things. Given the present state of the
Royal Mail, or whatever it now calls itself, who could expect anything else?
What is surprising is that the venture was embarked on at all. For the wisdom of
the wise in Labour circles was always that postal voting benefited the
Conservatives and the Liberals, as they were then named. That was because they
were not only more conscientious naturally but more accustomed to dealing with
envelopes and bits of paper in their daily lives.

Yet the strongest exponent of postal voting was, it seems, Mr John Prescott, the
nearest thing in the present cabinet to the Keeper of the Cloth Cap. Mr Prescott
now clearly sees himself as a person of influence, not only over voting systems
but over the succession to Mr Blair.

It may be worth recalling, by the way, that in his observations to The Times a
few weeks ago he did not once say that the tectonic plates were shifting.
"Tectonic" is, after all, a big word, like "marmalade" or "stepladder". What Mr
Prescott said was that the plates were shifting. This was clearly a reference -
an insight which I owe to the acuity of Mr Simon Hoggart of The Guardian - to Mr
Prescott's days at sea, as a purser. There is an old naval saying, deriving from
the Napoleonic Wars, though unmentioned in the standard works on that period or
even in the novels of Patrick O'Brian: "When plates are shifting, storm be
brewing." That was evidently what Mr Prescott had in mind.

But politics is such a strange business that the leader who is in the eye of any
storm that may be brewing by the end of the week looks like being Mr Michael
Howard rather than Mr Blair. He is an innocent party, or as much of one as there
usually is in politics. His idea for a referendum on the European constitution
(which many voters understandably confuse with a referendum on the euro) was
adopted by Mr Blair to please Mr Rupert Murdoch.

Last week Mr Howard, foolishly rather than opportunistically, said that he
supported demonstrations against the price of petrol. He was then forced into
reverse gear and said that he supported them only if they did not cause
"disruption". Of what earthly use to anyone, I should like to know, is a
demonstration unless it inconveniences somebody at some stage?

But his heaviest burden was the UK Independence Party. Its greatest strength,
from the point of view of those looking at newspaper coverage, is that for the
European elections two of its supporters are better known than any two from any
other party. They are Miss Joan Collins and Mr Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Miss Collins, as the boxing posters of my youth used to put it, needs no
introduction, though that was usually because the promoters could not think of
anything further to say about the fighter in question, which is certainly not
true of Miss Collins. Mr Kilroy-Silk was a perfectly serious and, in his way,
valuable Labour backbencher from 1974 to 1986. For instance, he tried to do
something about the legitimised bullying that went on in youth detention
centres. He has, it is true, moved somewhat to the right since those days: but
then, so also have many others too. And while Ms Patricia Hewitt, say, used to
be a raving lunatic, Mr Kilroy- Silk was always comparatively sane.

Has anyone else noticed that all three of our leaders are now addicted to pop
music? Mr Blair not only had his undergraduate band but retains his clear
preferences, or prejudices, whose music he plays regularly. Mr Howard recently
brought the House down - the members, unlike me, took the reference - when he
quoted the Beach Boys' words "Help me ..." in relation to the MP for Rhondda,
the super-Blairite Mr Chris Bryant. And only last week Mr Charles Kennedy
confessed on BBC television that every day he liked, if possible, to listen to
something by Mr David Bowie. They are all clearly suffering from brain-rot. God
help us all!

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              278 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

AGENDA: THIS WEEK'S BIG ISSUES

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 861 words


G8 LEADERS TO DISCUSS DEBT RELIEF

GEORGE BUSH WANTS TO WRITE OFF 90 PER CENT OF IRAQ'S BILLS BUT OTHER LEADERS
FEEL LESS GENEROUS

What's the story?

Heads of state of the world's leading industrial nations meet at the G8 summit
in Sea Island, Georgia, this week. They will again try to tighten the existing
nuclear anti-proliferation curbs and exhort Palestinians and Israelis to end
their conflict. George Bush will attempt some fence mending with his principal
opponents President Chirac and Vladimir Putin, but he will be pressing Iraq's
creditors to write-off 90 per cent of its debt. The two biggest creditors,
France and Russia, are arguing for a much smaller reduction.

What are they saying?

French finance minister Nicolas Sarkozy said: "The American position is to wipe
as much as is possible off Iraq's debt. We agree completely with making a
substantial effort. The percentage will be decided by the heads of state."

Max Lawson, policy adviser to Oxfam, said the G8 could allow debt relief for
poor countries. "A large chunk of Iraq's $ 126bn (pounds 68.5bn) debt is likely
to be written-off," he said. "When it is politically convenient, large-scale
debt relief is possible."

What happens next?

Gordon Brown, a vocal advocate of debt relief for the poorest countries, will
take advantage of America's keenness to forgive Iraq's debts to promote the debt
initiative. He will press the summit to agree that the initiative should be
extended to new states so far excluded. (At least seven have been in conflicts
and have been kept out until now). This would mean extending the level of debt
relief covered by the initiative from pounds 70bn to pounds 100bn. France and
Canada strongly support the extension of debt relief. James Lewis

EUROPEAN FOOTBALL IN PORTUGAL

ENGLAND MANAGER'S FUTURE IN THE BALANCE AS 15 TEAMS JOIN THE HOST COUNTRY FOR A
THREE-WEEK PLAY-OFF

What's the story?

The European Championship is second only to the World Cup in footballing
prestige. For three weeks from Saturday, 16 teams, initially split into four
groups, compete at venues all over Portugal, with the final taking place at the
Stadium of Light (Lisbon's, not Sunderland's) a month from today. England, the
only home country to qualify, will have an estimated 50,000 supporters combining
a holiday, football and drinking, and the team could be thrown out if fans
misbehave.

What are they saying?

England's first foreign manager, Sven Goran Eriksson, is not given to bold
predictions about winning, but he believes his team can go close if, crucially,
the most important players escape injury. "France, Italy and Portugal must be
among the favourites," he says. "And why not England? If they're all fit, we are
good enough to win." His captain, David Beckham, is singing from the same sheet:
"We've got a very talented squad and if everyone stays fit we're going to have a
great chance."

What happens next?

There are two matches each day for 11 days, starting at 5pm on Saturday when
host country Portugal meet Greece. England begin next Sunday at 7.45pm against
the tournament favourites France, then play supposedly easier games against
Switzerland (17 June) and Croatia (21 June). If they finish first or second out
of four, there will be a quarter-final on 24 or 25 June, probably against Spain
or Portugal. Finish third or fourth and they will return home to calls for
Eriksson to resign from his pounds 3.5m-a-year job as manager. Steve Tongue

BRITAIN GOES TO THE POLLS

THE UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY MAKES GAINS WHILE SOME POSTAL VOTERS WAIT IN VAIN FOR
BALLOT PAPERS

What's the story?

On Super Thursday' there are polls in all 12 constituencies for the European
Parliament, and 36 metropolitan and 20 unitary councils in England. Londoners
also choose their mayor. So far the big stories of the campaign include a
surprise surge in support for the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip) and
chaos surrounding trials of new all-postal ballots. Ukip's endorsement by
celebrities from Robert Kilroy-Silk to Jonathan Aitken via Joan Collins have
been, without doubt, the most diverting feature.

What are they saying?

After a visit to Whitechapel, Frank Maloney, Ukip's London mayoral candidate,
remarked, "Barely anyone speaks English and to look around you would think you
are in a different country." It was an observation that moved Ken Livingstone to
comment, "Ukip are the British National Party in suits." Meanwhile, Charles
Kennedy's dubbing the postal vote mess a "democratic disgrace" appeared rather
less felicitous following the arrest of a Lib Dem candidate in Oldham for an
alleged theft of postal ballot papers.

What happens next?

Some councils will declare overnight on Thursday but most, including the London
mayoral result, won't be known until at least Friday night. And just when you
think it's all over, the European results will be out a week today. Robert
Kilroy-Silk MEP looks a sure bet, but freak shows apart there will be serious
analysis. Is Blair a significant liability to Labour? Has Michael Howard put the
Tories back in a winning position? Francis Elliott

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              279 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

QUOTES OF THE WEEK

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 150 words


This is a subtle way for the President to begin to cast some of the blame for
the Iraq morass on to somebody else

Stansfield Turner former CIA director on the resignation of George Tenet from
the agency

Ken Livingstone must be the only person in Britain to have actually joined the
Labour Party this year

Steven Norris Conservative candidate for Mayor of London, on his opponent

I am responsible for many things but I can't make people slimmer

Tony Blair Prime Minister, on the Government's role in tackling obesity

I can do more in an hour than other people can do in two or three months

Max Clifford publicist, on his contribution to the UKIP's European election
campaign

I couldn't understand most of it and never managed to make a souffle - despite
what you saw on screen. That is another cheat

Amanda Barrie

actress, on her experience

in Hell's Kitchen

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              280 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

THE DIARY

BYLINE: EDITED BY CHRISTOPHER SILVESTER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 681 words


Today's commemorations bring to mind a stroke of good fortune that befell Sir
John Keegan, one of our most distinguished military historians. Several years
ago, he received a call from his literary agent who conveyed an unusual request.
The multimillionaire Wall Street arbitrageur Saul Steinberg had declared himself
a fan of Keegan's writings. He had also expressed the wish that Keegan might
agree to guide him on a two-day private tour of the Normandy beaches and
battlefields. Keegan at first demurred - historians are not tour guides, after
all. That is, until he was told that the fee for his efforts would be pounds
30,000.

F F F

This week's Derby Club dinner at the Savoy for 400 horse-racing notables was a
lively occasion as always. Shadow defence spokesman Nicholas Soames did sterling
service as an emergency speaker and brought the house down with an anecdote told
against himself. Recalling the final stages of his training as an officer cadet
at Mons, he described a conversation with his regimental sergeant major the day
before he received his commission. "Tomorrow, Soames, you will have one pip on
your left shoulder and one pip on your right shoulder, and I shall have to
address you as Sir," the RSM explained. "But deep down, Soames, I shall always
think of you as a complete and utter c***."

F F F

With the Daily Mail and General Trust edging ahead in the bidding for the
Telegraph Group, one person heaving a sigh of relief is George Galloway, the MP
for Glasgow Kelvin. Since Galloway is a columnist for the Scottish edition of
The Mail on Sunday, it would be surprising if The Daily Telegraph's likely new
owners did not move to settle Galloway's libel action against the paper over its
front-page stories accusing him of being in the pay of Saddam Hussein.

Meanwhile, Galloway, who was expelled from the Labour Party on Tony Blair's
orders, is standing as a Euro candidate in the London region for Respect, the
left-wing, anti-war alliance. Whatever the outcome of that contest, Galloway is
offering to serve as an agent for the Respect candidate in the by-election in
the Leicester South seat of the recently deceased Jim Marshall. It's a safe
Labour seat but has a large Muslim element - which is why Respect plans to field
a Muslim candidate. "We'll fight Blair from house to house, for every single
vote in the constituency," says Galloway.

F F F

We may live in days of budget airlines but the Foreign Office managed to spend
pounds 1.7m on first-class air travel in the past three years. "Where flights
last over three hours Senior Management Staff with Permanent Secretary rank may
travel first class," says the FCO. Other senior diplomats are allowed to travel
first class "on the final leg of the journey on first arrival at their Post", it
adds. This, it is felt, creates the right impression among the locals.

F F F

Impressionable young things at the Oxford Union this week were enticed to
support the motion that the UK is the poodle of the US by a promise from one of
its proposers, Taki, that anyone who voted for the motion could join him on his
yacht this summer. Despite an exhausting evening for Taki (he inadvertently
voted for the wrong side), the motion was carried.

F F F

High-minded former BBC war reporter Martin Bell, who is trying to win a Euro
seat as an independent candidate in the eastern region - and who is thus
competing with UKIP for votes, is not above enlisting a bit of celeb support.
"You should have been in Saffron Walden when David Soul was campaigning for me,"
he tells me. "I also have the support of the original Starsky. And then there's
Huggy Bear and Terry Waite as well."

F F F

Young fogey and Tory parliamentary hopeful Jacob Rees-Mogg has a new party trick
to answer those who deny that Brussels insists on bananas being straight. He
carries in his wallet a piece of paper detailing EU regulation 2257/94 stating
that bananas must be "free of abnormal curvature" and should be at least 5.5
inches long. And just when you thought he couldn't get any more smug.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              281 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  June 6, 2004

Race slurs, strippers and Pounds 100-a-bottle champagne sleazy past of UKIP boss

BYLINE: JONATHAN OLIVER

SECTION: FB; Pg. 24; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 803 words


THE UK Independence Party is at the centre of an extraordinary race row after
one of its leaders was accused of referring to black people as 'niggers' and
'nig-nogs'.

Nigel Farage, regarded as the driving force of the anti-EU party, also faces
allegations of visiting sleazy sex clubs and missing crucial parliamentary votes
after drinking sessions.

The claims come in the run-up to Thursday's European elections in which the UKIP
is forecast to make a historic breakthrough, pushing the Liberal Democrats into
fourth place and wrecking hopes of a Tory revival.

But a Mail on Sunday investigation reveals a disturbing dark side to the party,
which bills itself as a mainstream voice of Eurosceptic opinion. Mr Farage is
alleged to have made the racist outburst during an argument with former UKIP
leader Alan Sked, a respected historian who has now left the party. He is
alleged to have said: 'We will never win the nigger vote. The nig-nogs will
never vote for us.' The alleged remark came during a row over the fine print of
the UKIP's ' membership forms' which stated it was 'not prejudiced against
minorities'.

Dr Sked, a lecturer at the London School of Economics, said: 'I was quite
shocked. I had never really heard people talk like this before. Others just
thought it was Nigel being funny but to me it really wasn't funny at all.'

The party, which is calling for Britain's complete withdrawal from the EU, has
been given a boost by high-profile new recruits, including former television
presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk. But while he may be the public face of the party,
Mr Farage, a 40-year-old former commodities broker from Kent, has emerged as the
real power in the UKIP since he was elected South-East region MEP in the
European Parliament four years ago. Now his claims to be the man best placed to
clean up EU sleaze appear to be doubtful.

Dr Sked told how he was taken by Mr Farage to a Mayfair strip club after a
meeting of the party's executive committee. He said: 'It was full of these
hatchet-faced women wearing nothing but G-strings, selling drinks.

'Nigel was buying the drinks. I think we had champagne. The rest of us had one
drink and in that time Nigel had half a dozen.

He was completely blotto. As I left I saw Nigel's head was wedged between one
woman's breasts.

'He must have stayed for a while after we left. He confessed later he had no
idea how he got home. I must have been there about 45 minutes. The place was
decorated like a Victorian brothel. It was incredibly sleazy.' Dr Sked said Mr
Farage often turned up to meetings drunk and contemporary documents confirm this
was seen as a problem.

A leaked minute from the UKIP's executive committee for February 11, 1997,
states: 'Dr Sked rebuked Nigel Farage for constantly repeating himself and for
coming to the meeting under the influence of alcohol.' The claims about the
MEP's fondnessfor strippers and alcohol are backed up by Dr Richard North, who
worked as the party's director of research in Europe for four years until he
quit last autumn.

Dr North told The Mail on Sunday how he accompanied Mr Farage to a Strasbourg
strip club, where they drank champagne at Pounds 100 a bottle. He said: ' It was
our Christmas party. About half a dozen went on to the strip club.

It was hard to find. We actually went into a gay bar by mistake first.

'It was a normal bar at the front.

Behind was where the mugs were shepherded in for the strippers. The girls were
wearing practically nothing. We stayed three or four hours until about 4am.
Nigel was with two beauties, stuck in their warm embraces.

'The champagne was 132 euros a bottle. It was the only thing on offer. I didn't
want to be there. It seemed like a ridiculous amount to pay for a drink.' Dr
North also alleged that the MEP would regularly go on drinking binges until 5am
at his favourite Strasbourg bar, Les Aviateurs a night club themed around air
travel.

Sometimes he would be so hung over the next day that he would miss crucial
parliamentary votes.

Dr North said: 'We often wouldn't finish work until 10pm. We would go and have a
meal, with quite a bit to drink, a few bottles, then Nigel would go off to a
nightclub.

'A few too many times he wouldn't turn up to vote the next morning.

That's why he didn't turn up to the budget in 2001.

'This was the most important vote of the year but he turned up after the vote at
about lunchtime. The night before we had been with him until midnight. Then he
headed off declaring his intentions to drink some more.' Mr Farage said last
night: 'As far as racist remarks to UKIP colleagues are concerned, I have made
no such comments and there are many people within the party who will testify to
that.' He declined to comment on the other allegations.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              282 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  June 6, 2004

Telltale sign that Powell was right

SECTION: FB; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 400 words


TONY BLAIR'S chief of staff Jonathan Powell has denied claiming that Gordon
Brown was trapped in a 'Shakespearean tragedy' and would never be Prime
Minister.

Powell insisted the remarks he reportedly made to Tory MP Boris Johnson were
just 'light-hearted banter'.

So is this the same model of discretion who was spotted in a pub chatting to
another Conservative Member of Parliament about sensitive schooling plans for
the Blair children?

PRINCE CHARLES has yet to meet Tory leader Michael Howard more than six months
after his appointment. The brooding Prince has given Howard a wide berth since
his infamous 'something of the night' tag while Rightwing Home Secretary.

WHO is the new leggy blonde in Gordon Brown's life? The Chancellor has hired a
glamorous Finnish nanny to help wife Sarah look after baby son John.

No wonder the normally dour Gordon has been looking more cheerful of late.

Jo-Anne's date turns the air true blue

FORMER Conservative aide Jo-Anne Nadler has written a memoir of disastrous dates
with Rightwing men called Too Nice To Be A Tory. Over dinner one unnamed MP
called the waiter a 'f****** idiot' and, turning to Nadler, said: 'You dare to
question me! A woman, like a waiter, doesn't question the authority of a man
especially when he is paying the bill.'

TONY BLAIR'S director of communications David Hill faces a Whitehall mutiny.

Spin doctors in the Government department say they would rather stay in bed an
extra hour than attend hapless Hill's turgid daily 8.30am strategy meetings.

No fags or booze but Reid's past his Prime

HEALTH Secretary John Reid may have given up fags and booze but the years of
dangerous living have taken their toll.

Friends say the ambitious 57-year-old could never handle the pressure of being
Prime Minister. Even now he sometimes struggles to stay awake in the evening.

A TV profile of Tony Blair by his biographer Anthony Seldon contains the 'scoop'
that Gordon Brown strode into the Prime Minister's study and said: 'When are you
going to f*** off?' Sound familiar?

The Mail on Sunday first revealed the incident in March.

Beam me back up, Michael

TORY head-banger John Redwood is bailing out Michael Howard as he struggles to
see off the UK Independence Party. The Vulcan believes it is only a matter of
time before he is beamed back into the Shadow Cabinet.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              283 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  June 6, 2004

Sadly, the silly party is the only sane option

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: FB_S; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1010 words


WITH a bit of luck, Michael Howard has dealt the death blow to his useless Tory
By describing most natural Conservatives as ' extremists' for wanting to leave
the EU, he has finally revealed the contempt which his party has for its own
supporters.

I hope they read, mark and inwardly digest this. And that they then return the
favour.

Mr Howard, viewed as a Right-winger, is, in fact, just another member of the
disastrous British political mainstream, as they like to think of themselves.

These people, who deride their critics as ' extremists' have a pretty extreme
record themselves.

They are the ones who turned a successful, well educated, peaceful, free country
into an ill-educated, crime-blighted, authoritarian banana republic, whose
affairs are largely controlled from abroad.

Decent Labour-voting citizens and decent Tory-voting citizens alike have been
ignored by leaders who thought wrongly that they knew better.

This wrongheaded elite has abandoned common sense, sacrificed national
independence, bowed to fashionable but stupid ideas about schools, the family,
and policing, neglected the fabric of the nation, and resorted to pathetic
gimmicks to distract our attention from the mess they are making.

It is time we got rid of these failures. And we can take a great step towards
doing so on June 10.

The UKIP is a silly party with some very silly people in it. It has no future.
But voting for it on Thursday could bring down the current system which is just
two corpses propping each other up.

It could open the way for the creation of a serious new party, perhaps even two
serious new parties, neither bigoted nor politically correct, that actually put
the interests of this country and its people first.

Our prison chiefs are the real drug abusers

WHAT about the curious case of the two convicts who escaped into jail? Audie
Carr and Benjamin Clarke, no angels, fled from Leyhill open prison and asked to
be let back into a proper jail in Gloucester. They complained that Leyhill was
'rife with drugs'. Of course it is.

Most of our prisons are and the Home Secretary does nothing about it. Is that
because prison chiefs believe the drugs keep inmates quiet, along with the
in-cell TV sets?

IN THE great swathes of the country where proper voting has been abolished and
replaced with postal forms, people are worried by the bar codes on their voting
papers. I agree with them. It has always been possible to trace a vote on the
rare occasions when there was an inquiry, but it was a cumbersome procedure
involving weeks of work.

Now it can be done in seconds.

Not only are the new postal ballots open to all kinds of sinister fiddles and
pressures a positive invitation to fraud and intimidation but like the subjects
of some dictator, British citizens now do not believe their ballots are secret
in any way that counts.

DOWNING Street henchman Jonathan Powell is supposed to have confided Blairite
secrets to Tory MP Boris Johnson, pictured, as they sat side by side on bicycles
waiting for the traffic lights to change. The thing I find hard to believe about
this tale is that two cyclists actually stopped for a red light. I thought I was
the only one left in Britain who ever did this.

Dubya's duping a nation with his twisted history

THERE should be more fuss about this. The ludicrous George W. Bush said last
week that, 'Like the Second World War, our present conflict began with a
ruthless surprise attack on the United States.' Er, not exactly. World War Two
began with a German invasion of Poland, continued with the Battle of France, the
Battle of Britain and then the German invasions of Yugoslavia and Russia.

Only after all these events did the US enter the war, having been attacked by
Japan.

Pearl Harbor was a surprise only because of American complacency and
incompetence. And Hitler declared war on the US rather than the other way round.

If his audience of USAF cadets knew he was wrong, they didn't show it. I fear
his profound ignorance of history is widely shared in America.

The US is a wonderful country and I admire its generous people and its
attachment to liberty. But it is also a foreign country which does not always
have the same interests as us, or care much about us.

I think this weekend we should give special thanks to Canada, a country whose
fighting men have twice sacrificed themselves courageously in our cause out of
genuine selfless generosity.

DID you know accountants can now be prosecuted if they fail to report suspicions
about a client's affairs?

How long before the same creepy rule is applied to lawyers and other
professionals?

Honestly, this is how a society becomes totalitarian.

ALL those humanitarians so keen to invade Iraq to end massacre and torture, and
Kosovo to stop ethnic cleansing, isn't it time we heard from you about Darfur in
the Sudan? There, state sponsored Muslim marauders are doing unspeakable things,
amid silence and darkness.

Mr Blair, a word from you please?

The picture that scars our society

EVERY so often people tell me I am too pessimistic about this country.

The pictures of Louise McClintock, cruelly scarred and half-blinded by scum in a
nightclub, seem to me to suggest that I am not nearly pessimistic enough.

Nobody is safe from the drunken loutishness which rules our streets.

God save us from toadies in mitres . . .

IF Jesus Christ wasn't the Son of God, then Canterbury Cathedral is a
meaningless pile of masonry and an archbishop's mitre is just a silly hat.

Christ was absolutely against divorce. So, while others may make light of these
rules, especially if they wish to toady to Royalty and assure the Prince of
Wales that it is all right for him to marry Mrs Parker Bowles, archbishops just
can't.

If they insist on undermining their own faith, then take away their mitres,
their palaces and their pensions and give them jobs as the social workers and
university lecturers they were obviously meant to be.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              284 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  June 6, 2004

Pump up petrol prices, it will make life better

BYLINE: SUZANNE MOORE

SECTION: FB; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 926 words


SHOULD PETROL prices go up I am greatly looking forward to the day when Michael
Howard starts his campaign of civil disobedience.

What will he do?

Chain himself to the railings at Westminster? Throw himself in front of one of
John Prescott's Jags?

Would Gordon Brown then be moved enough not to raise tax?

Who knows? The idea of an increase in the rise of petrol sends everyone
doolally. I suspect the 'motorists' lobby' of sniffing the stuff.

So deranged are their arguments that one might imagine the world as we know it
will grind to a halt if oil prices rise.

Car journeys will be slightly more expensive and, even worse, cheap flights
won't be so cheap. No more long weekends in Carcassonne. People who ferry their
obese children to school in monstrous four-wheel drives will be objects of
scorn.

Yes, that would all be tragic.

Especially compared with global warming, rising sea levels and flooding in parts
of the world that the low-budget airlines don't bother to fly to.

One might hope that the current 'crisis' over the fixing of oil production was
something of a wakeup call. But that would require some logical thinking.

Instead, we have to listen to the arguments of those who believe we have a
God-given right to guzzle fuel with no regard for anyone else. Truly we are all
Americans now and our 'right' to happiness includes the right to make pointless
journeys.

WE have the right to eat food flown halfway round the world using low-tax
aviation fuel and the right to drive our children everywhere instead of
encouraging them to walk, cycle or use public transport.

We must be able to park wherever we want and drive as fast as we want even if
that involves killing a few children.

The fuel protesters are poised in the wings. Theirs is a kind of collective road
rage that is somehow sanctioned by those who should know better.

It is a pity that this rage could not be channelled into something more
productive such as, say, the invasion of Saudi Arabia.

After all, this is surely the next step. The war in Iraq was about a lot of
things that turned out not to be there, such as weapons of mass destruction.

It was never, according to Blair and Bush, about what was so obviously there
namely vast oil reserves.

THE Iraqi resistance has limited the oil coming out of that devastated, sorry,
liberated, country so the West is even more dependent on Saudi Arabia.

The panic about prices is because of the threat to Saudi oil fields from its
home-grown terrorists.

They have the West over a barrel on this one.

At some point we will all have to recognise that Saudi Arabia has exported not
only oil but its own internal problems.

Until September 11, when Saudi murderers, inspired by the Saudi Bin Laden,
wrought their destruction, we thought it was a price worth paying. Now we are no
longer sure.

Yet if we are not to be beholden to the repressive House of Saud, we either have
to force change on them, which could make Iraq look like a stroll in the park,
or we could change our ways.

In fact, we could even be better off without so much dependency on oil.

What better way to make us more energy efficient than cutting down car use?

What better way to stop obesity than by making us walk occasionally or to ensure
children go to local schools because parents refuse to drive them across cities?

What better diets than eating seasonal, locally produced food?

What better towns than ones designed for people not cars?

Wailing of a strumpet

DIDO has revealed to the world that she likes sex. The nation breathes a sigh of
relief. She's mad for it, apparently. Is there anything worse than a nice, well
brought-up girl like Dido, above, trying to act the strumpet? Yes there is,
actually. Her bloody expressionless caterwauling.

She's too good for you, Charles

A FORMER aide to Prince Charles recently suggested he missed an opportunity to
marry Camilla Parker Bowles when public opinion was more favourable after the
Queen Mother's death. But that is Charles all over, his title should be Prince
of Missed Opportunities.

He says he won't be bounced into marrying the love of his life by the
archbishops, which must make Camilla feel great. We all know Charles will not be
bounced while he can dither.

My sense is that public opinion is not so much weighted against Camilla but
simply bored by the whole charade. She is surely too old now to be bundled out
of the back at public events when we all know they go home together. He treated
Diana appallingly because of Camilla but the way he now treats Camilla is surely
no way to treat a lady. The truth is she is too good for him.

I WAS convinced the Big Brother producers would keep fragile lesbian 'activist'
Kitten in the house to maintain conflict. They bottled out. She may not have
inspired the anarchy she hoped for, but rows are better than gormless sex.

Now we are only left to wonder which of the others will finally manage the
arduous challenge of mating in captivity.

Revealed: Tories in their underwear

HOORAY for the UKIP which, with the combined charisma of Joan Collins and Robert
Kilroy-Silk, is determined to keep us out of Europe. I hate to quibble, but
isn't Europe where Joan actually lives and Kilroy-Silk gets his all-year round
tan?

Yet under their forced smiles and respectable suits, most Conservatives think
like the UKIP.

The UKIP is simply the Conservative Party stripped. They are the Tories parading
about in their underwear.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              285 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  June 6, 2004

Lotto will pay for gay museum, says Ken

BYLINE: JAMES TAPPER

SECTION: FB; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 435 words


THEY can't agree on the congestion charge or house prices but at least the main
candidates for London's Mayor concur on one thing the capital needs a gay museum
paid for by Lottery money.

Both Labour's Ken Livingstone and the Tories' Steve Norris have given their
backing for a publicly funded museum to 'celebrate queer history and culture'.

Likely exhibits would include transvestite outfits, gay porn videos and perhaps
even sex toys all of which feature in Europe's other gay museum, the Schwules
Museum in Berlin.

The controversial pledge to set up a museum dedicated to lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgender people was made by the Labour and Conservative candidates at a
hustings held by gay rights campaign group Stonewall .

But other mayoral hopefuls have condemned the idea as a waste of public money
that could be better spent improving London's crumbling transport
infrastructure.

A similar plan in America to create an International Museum of Gay History will
run to around Pounds 20million, while the cost of setting up a new museum in
Leeds dedicated to the city's history is Pounds 26million, including Pounds
19million from the Lottery Heritage Fund.

The UK Independence Party's candidate, boxing promoter Frank Maloney, said: 'Why
on earth does London need a gay museum? The money could be far better spent on
educating our young people improving the sporting facilities in schools, for a
start.' The idea of the museum was first mooted by the Green Party's Darren
Johnson, the only gay candidate.

Launching his manifesto last month, Mr Johnson said he wanted to 'enhance
London's role as a world-class gay friendly city' and the museum would
'celebrate queer history and culture'.

Along with the museum, Mr Johnson's other plans include legalising the practice
of gay men 'cruising' for potential partners in public parks and reserving a
seat on the Metropolitan Police Authority for gay campaigners.

The gay museum would probably be funded mainly by a lottery grant, according to
a Green spokeswoman.

In contrast, the Schwules Museum, set up in 1985 by three German homosexuals,
receives just Pounds 3,300 a year from the public purse and the proposed US
museum relies on private donations.

Last year the Schwules hosted an exhibition called 21x5: Porno Making.

A selection of videos in its archives include titles such as Sneakers Sex IV.

A spokesman for Lib Dem candidate Simon Hughes said: 'We would support the
museum in principle but we wouldn't provide financial backing.' Mr Livingstone
and Mr Norris declined to comment.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              286 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

Business & Media: : Media diary

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 561 words


Rough as Silk

To Westminster for the launch of the UK Independence party's manifesto. Former
daytime TV king Robert Kilroy-Silk, below, gave a combative performance,
interrupting Sky political editor Adam Boulton to accuse him of 'sloppy
journalism'. Boulton stayed silent, despite the fact Kilroy-Silk's recycled
Sunday Express column was hardly worthy of Carl Bernstein. The ex-Labour MP has
lost none of the diplomatic skills honed on his chat show. 'None of you can
remember the first European referendum,' he raged, before spotting Channel 4
News political editor Elinor Goodman. 'Apart from you, Elinor.' Charming.

Bullet bulletin

After the IRA car bomb that damaged Television Centre several years ago, the BBC
decided to fit its fancy new media village with bomb-proof windows. But they are
proving a problem for its army of employees. Teenagers from the council estate
that surrounds it are taking pot-shots at the building with air rifles in the
knowledge that bullets can't penetrate what bombs can't damage. 'It's not just
the odd shot, it's a constant barrage of bullets,' complains one insider.
Someone should confiscate Alastair Campbell's pistol.

Star struck

As Piers Morgan puts the finishing touches to his £2m claim against his former
employer, he can take comfort in the fact the entire 'fake picture' episode was
written in the stars. In the latest ES magazine, astrologer Shelley von
Strunckel turns her attention to the deposed Mirror editor (Star sign, Aries),
informing us that 'Aries courage is exactly what's required for the countless
decisions that newspaper editors face'. So how was he hoodwinked? 'It's simple,'
von Strunckel says. 'He was doing too much.' And the decision not to apologise?
'Aries ego.' It seems Piers is in for a rough time. 'This is only the beginning
of a cycle ushered in by the disruptive Uranus,' von Strunckel warns. 'One which
continues until 2007.' Presumably he will have settled his unfair dismissal
claim by then.

Making waves

Readers with real lives may be unaware of section 159 of the Communications
Bill. The clause slipped through Parliament months ago; conspiracy theorists
hold it could determine whether or not Britain joins the euroclub.

The clause enables the government to slap taxes on the radio spectrum - chiefly
the part used by satellite broadcasters. So if Rupert Murdoch wants Sky to avoid
the fate of the phone companies forced to pay billions for 3G licences, perhaps
his newspapers might contemplate giving Tony an easier ride on Europe. Vive la
difference !

Blowback

The Daily Mail 's brave decision to include chatrooms on its new website could
yet backfire after readers began using them to discuss the paper's merits (or
the lack of them). 'I read some daft editorial and it winds me up, so I rant
about it for a bit and feel better,' writes one. But another adds: 'I can't take
it seriously any more. Someone . . . once said that they see it as a comic and
that's how I'm starting to treat it.'

Comeback?

'Vote Tory' reads the editorial in this week's Spectator , clearly relieved that
the recent Conservative recovery has allowed it to tell its readers to do what
comes naturally. The sense of relief is tangible, although it won't last too
long if UKIP pushes the 'natural party of government' into third place on June
10.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              287 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

Business & Media: Business: In my view: Labour makes progress - by inches

BYLINE: William Keegan

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1233 words


THE COMMEMORATION of D-Day and the annual world economic summit in Georgia, US,
will give the leaders of the major industrial countries plenty of opportunity
for high-level discussion this week. But the minds of some of them will be on
events at a lower level - in Tony Blair's case, of course, the outcome of
Thursday's local and European elections.

We are told that almost everywhere the atmosphere varies from apathy to outright
distrust of politicians. And, one fears, in the case of the British Prime
Minister there is a lot to be distrustful about. The turnout of voters, it is
widely predicted, will be abysmally low, continuing a well-established trend -
notwithstanding the fact that people fought and died for the right to vote - one
suffragette threw herself in front of the king's horse in the Derby.

The conventional view is that, insofar as the electorate is prepared to turn out
at all, it will be to make a protest vote. I have lost count of the number of
people who say they are going to vote Green, or for some party whose name I have
never heard of. Many who would otherwise vote Labour are no longer prepared to
vote for a party still led by someone who took us into the wrong war, for the
wrong reason, on wrong evidence and on a wrong interpretation of what flimsy
intelligence there was.

At a lower level of importance, there are those who think Ken Livingstone's
congestion charge in London will give him a bigger footnote in history than most
of the present Cabinet, but who will blame him - not altogether fairly - for the
poor state of the Underground. And even some who accept the principle of the
congestion charge but regard it as unjust that someone who has every intention
of paying the £5, but forgets on the day, should automatically be fined eight to
16 times that sum with no redress.

Party allegiance is strong, but not that strong, especially at elections such as
these. I recall during the general election of 1983, when Thatcherism was doing
untold damage to the British economy and even threatening social cohesion,
someone came up to a 'One Nation' Conservative minister and said: 'I shall be
voting for you'; the minister afterwards commented that he had to exercise
considerable restraint in order to avoid replying: 'You bloody fool!'

Apart from Iraq, the most glaring issue arousing a protest vote is 'Europe'. As
regular readers know, I myself have serious reservations about the macroeconomic
policies conducted in the eurozone, and believe Gordon Brown was right to be
cautious in this regard. But you only have to look at the map to see which
continent we belong to.

Yet this government has been pusillanimous to the point of culpable negligence
in failing to put the case for our continued membership of the European Union.
Blair is the unofficial godfather to the United Kingdom Independence Party - a
party which knows little history, less geography, and derives much of its
support from sections of the press owned by non-Europeans.

Another object of protest is the planned increase in fuel duty, which does not
look politically attractive in the light of the oil price crisis. In this
context there was an interesting example of potentially beneficial EU
coordination last week. Twenty-five finance ministers reportedly made an
informal agreement not to react unilaterally by cutting taxes on fuel and
causing the kind of chaos that prevailed in the summer of 2000, when some cut
and some didn't.

In the UK's case, of course, we are talking not about a cut but a planned
increase. Brown has attempted to kick this particular oilcan into touch,
promising a review in August. If the Chancel lor is on holiday in Cape Cod at
the time, he will no doubt enjoy a nice sense of perspective.

Although he did not resign with Robin Cook, and indeed propped Blair up during a
crucial vote on Iraq, the Chancellor seems largely to have escaped censure over
Iraq. He has not been tarred by the same brush as the Prime Minister, and this
is no doubt partly because he is assumed to have been against the war, and
partly because he was seriously concerned about splitting the party. Moreover,
an essential element of the pair's Granita Agreement was his wide-ranging
control over domestic policy, leaving foreign policy to Blair.

A Labour Party led by Brown might not attract as many Conservative voters as
Blair does, but it would be highly unlikely to carry a large protest vote over
from this coming Thursday to the general election. Meanwhile, both Blair and
Brown are fortunate in facing as Shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin, a man who may
be very intelligent and engaging, but who must remind older readers of a kind of
Sir Keith Joseph on Prozac.

Letwin's apparent desire to reduce public spending dramatically (as a proportion
of gross domestic product) when the nation is still recovering from the Keith
Joseph/Margaret Thatcher attack on the public services, is a generous propaganda
gift to Brown, who can hardly conceal his good fortune. Mind you, the Chancellor
may well need some good fortune, because the impact of the terrorist threat on
the oil price must make him worry that his long run of good economic luck - he
simply has not had to face external crises of the kind that afflicted 'Old'
Labour in the 1970s - may be coming to an end. King Canute knew he could not
turn back the waves, but nobody seems to have reminded the Group of Seven
finance ministers of the limits to their earthly powers over the price of oil.

Reference to Old Labour brings me to the recent publication of a fascinating
book, which should be of interest to those who are still scratching their heads
and wondering what more there is to New Labour than Thatcherism with a human
face.

The book is entitled The Struggle for Labour's Soul: Understanding Labour's
Political Thought Since 1945 (Routledge), edited by Lord Raymond Plant, Matt
Beech and Kevin Hickson.

For those who have almost given up on New Labour, the very title will be seen as
the epitome of the begged question. But the book contains a wide range of good
essays on Labour's struggle to adapt to a world that is considerably different
from the one in which Tony Crosland (much quoted here) tried to modernise its
approach in the 1950s. I am not sure that I would go quite so far as to say,
with Polly Toynbee and David Walker, that 'this Labour Govern ment stands
comparison with its predecessors, and may even turn out to be "more socialist".'

A telling point is made by Roy Hattersley when he says: 'The most memorable
moment during the 2001 election campaign was the Prime Minister's pointed
refusal to express any regret' that the gap between rich and poor had widened
since 1997.

Lord Plant himself notes the paradox that New Labour has, in his opinion, 'been
the most directly redistributive Labour government ever'. Yet all its many
detailed measures 'have not had an impact on the gap between rich and poor'.

Like Quintus Fabius Maximus - nicknamed Cunctator , (Delayer) for his tactics to
win Rome time to recover its strength - Blair and Brown have moved slowly. They
have avoided pitched battles with the modern equivalent of Hannibal, namely
'globalised capitalism', and tried, in the words of one definition of Labour's
ethos 'to erode by inches the conditions which produce avoidable suffering'.

But not in Iraq. . .


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              288 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

Don't try to oust Blair, Ken tells left

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 595 words


KEN L IVINGSTONE warns Labour rebels today that trying to overthrow Tony Blair
could destroy the party, amid fears that defeats in this week's local elections
could trigger a leadership challenge.

Anger over the Iraq war, combined with rising Euro-scepticism, has left Labour
facing grim prospects at the ballot box on Thursday. Some left-wingers are
considering using poor results as the springboard to topple Blair.

But Livingstone, now fighting for re-election as London Mayor on a Labour
ticket, warned any decision over the Prime Minister's future should be made by
the electorate.

'I don't think the Tory party ever recovered from getting rid of Mrs Thatcher.
It was something the voters should have done,' he told The Observer . 'I am
certain Tony Blair will lead the party into the next general election, and I say
to people who are saying "I will never vote Labour again", your choice is
Michael Howard or Tony Blair.'

Although infighting between the Brown and Blair camps has died down, fear of a
drubbing at the polls has revived rumours of a plot to oust the Prime Minister
at this autumn's party conference.

Lord Evans, a former Labour party chair and aide to Michael Foot, argued last
week in a little-noticed letter to a newspaper that 'if the results of the 10
June elections are anything like as bad as almost every pundit is predicting',
the only way to 'resolve this controversy' would be for constituency parties and
unions to send resolutions to the autumn conference demanding a vote on the
leadership.

Although a coup is almost inconceivable, Blair's critics will be poring over
Thursday's results. A swathe of council seats are vulnerable to the Liberal
Democrats, while Labour will struggle to get 29 per cent of the vote in the
European elections - behind the Tories and not far ahead of the extremist UK
Independence Party.

Downing Street fears voters deserting either 'because they're angry about Iraq,
or concerned that Iraq has distracted attention from issues they are concerned
about', said one senior source. Right-wing Eurosceptics and anti-war protesters
- both bad for Labour - are emerging as the most motivated to vote.

Former minister Peter Kilfoyle told The Observer that if this week's results
were bad, many MPs in marginal seats would feel 'incredibly imper illed' - and a
Cabinet reshuffle might not be enough to limit the damage.

'We should wait till 11 June and see what happens. It could crystallise views in
all sorts of directions, including at the top of the party.'

However an ICM poll of marginal seats for the News of the World today suggests
that while Labour would gain eight per cent in the polls if Brown took charge,
even under Blair there is little danger of a rout in the general election: on
current form he would lose only 29 seats, fewer than many MPs fear.

Rising Euroscepticism is a more immediate threat to Blair's planned referendum
on the EU Constitution next year. A likely consequence is a scramble to talk up
the pro-European cause, with Minis ters privately admitting they have allowed
sceptics to make the running. Think-tank Civitas will today publish a report
claiming EU membership costs Britain £20 billion a year.

Denis MacShane, the Minister for Europe, dismissed such arguments but said:
'Every minister (should) go out and make the case for Europe.'

Livingstone is backing compulsory voting - under which voters can be fined for
not completing a ballot paper, although they are offered the choice of 'none of
the above' candidates.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              289 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

Livingstone warns: don't dump Blair: London Mayor fears coup if there's an
election wipe out

BYLINE: by Gaby Hinsliff Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 729 words


KEN L IVINGSTONE warns Labour rebels today that trying to overthrow Tony Blair
could destroy the party, amid fears that a wipe-out in this week's local
elections could trigger an attempted coup.

Anger over the war in Iraq, combined with rising Euroscepticism, has left
Downing Street facing grim prospects at the ballot box on Thursday. Some
left-wingers are considering using poor results as the springboard to attempted
regime change.

But Livingstone, now fighting for re-election as London Mayor on a Labour
ticket, warned that any decision over the Prime Minister's future should be made
by the electorate.

'I don't think the Tory party ever recovered from getting rid of Mrs Thatcher.
It was something the voters should have done,' he told The Observer . 'I am
certain Tony Blair will lead the party into the next general election, and I say
to people who are saying "I will never vote Labour again". . . .your choice is
Michael Howard or Tony Blair.'

Although infighting between the Brown and Blair camps has died down, fear of a
drubbing at the polls has revived rumours of a plot to oust the Prime Minister
at this autumn's party conference.

Lord Evans, a former Labour party chair and aide to Michael Foot, argued last
week in a little-noticed letter to a national newspaper that 'if the results of
the 10 June elections are anything like as bad as almost every pundit is
predicting', the only way to 'resolve this controversy' would be for
constituency parties and unions to send resolutions to the autumn conference
demanding a vote on the leadership.

Although a coup is still virtually inconceivable, Blair's critics will be poring
over Thursday's results. A swathe of council seats are vulnerable to the Liberal
Democrats, while Labour will struggle even to get 29 per cent of the vote in the
European elections - behind the Tories and not far ahead of the extremist UK
Independence Party.

Downing Street fears voters deserting either 'because they're angry about Iraq,
or concerned that Iraq has distracted attention from issues they are concerned
about,' said one senior source. Right-wing Eurosceptics and anti-war protesters
- both bad for Labour - are emerging as most motivated to vote.

Former minister Peter Kilfoyle told The Observer that if this week's results
were bad many MPs in marginal seats would feel 'incredibly imperilled' - and a
Cabinet reshuffle might not be enough to limit the damage

'We should wait till 11 June and see what happens. It could crystallise views in
all sorts of directions, including at the top of the party.'

However an ICM poll of marginal seats for the News of the World today suggests
while Labour would gain eight per cent in the polls if Brown took charge, even
under Blair there is little danger of a rout in the general election: on current
form he would lose only 29 seats, fewer than many MPs fear.

Rising Euroscepticism is a more immediate threat to Blair's planned referendum
on the European Constitution next year. One likely consequence is a scramble to
talk up the pro-European cause, with Ministers privately admitting that the
failure to push a positive European message has let sceptics make the running.

The Tory think-tank, Civitas, will today publish a report claiming EU membership
costs Britain £20 billion a year and that quitting would not cost jobs.

Denis MacShane, the Min ister for Europe,dismissed such arguments but added:
'Every minister, from cabinet level down, (should) go out and make the case for
Europe. .'

Postal voting in four regions is expected to boost turnout. However, Doug
Henderson, MP for Newcastle North - where Liberal Demo-crats are trying to
capture the council - said: 'If things are swinging against you, higher turnout
can encourage people who wouldn't have bothered to come out against you.'

Henderson believes Labour will hold the city, but he was encountering 'an
anti-Blair feeling' - especially among women.

Amid fears of yet another low turnout, Livingstone is now backing compulsory
voting - under which voters can be fined for not completing a ballot paper,
although they are offered a choice of 'none of the above' candidates.

'I would be in favour providing it's a bank holiday,' he added. 'We can't have
compulsory voting on a day when people have to get to work or their kids to
school.'


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

How to tell what the results really mean

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 252 words


LOCAL ELECTIONS

Results: Late Thursday or Friday.

Labour's dream scenario: Labour holds Newcastle, Leeds and Sheffield councils;
Tories obliterated in major northern cities.

Labour's nightmare scenario: Lib Dems seize town halls across the north, Tories
take Trafford and Birmingham, Greens eat into Labour vote.

Forecast: Bad news likely for many Labour councillors; backbenchers will demand
redoubled efforts to woo heartland vote.

LONDON MAYORAL ELECTIONS

Results: Friday night.

Labour's dream scenario: Ken Livingstone wins by same margin over Steve Norris
as in 2000 (58 to 42 per cent), tearfully thanks Blair.

Labour's nightmare scenario: Livingstone loses to Norris, tearfully blames
Blair.

Forecast: Livingstone should win but by narrower margin, with some protesting
Labour voters staying home; Labour could well lose majority in the London
Assembly.

EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Results: Sunday.

Labour's dream scenario: Ukip surge devastates Tory vote, so nobody notices
Labour have done badly too. Two Tory MPs endorse Ukip, Michael Howard in crisis.

Labour's nightmare scenario: Labour falls below 25 per cent of vote after
appalling turnout, Ukip support crumbles, Howard does even better than William
Hague in 1999 (over 36 per cent of the vote).

Forecast: Labour set to receive less than 29 per cent, but Ukip could poll
around 20 per cent. Bad news for both Tories and Labour; Blair's referendum on
the European Constitution looks tough to win.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              291 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

BLACK THURSDAY?: This week, Labour faces its biggest test of public opinion
before the next general election, and the signs are that disgruntled voters will
give the party a rough ride. Gaby Hinsliff , Martin Bright and Lorna Martin
report on how things have gone wrong

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff , Martin Bright and Lorna Martin

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1404 words


THE FIRST EGG , hurled across a bustling east London shopping street, splatters
harmlessly a few feet from Ken Livingstone. Yolk from the next one splashes a
couple of colleagues, but, not for the first time, the mayor emerges squeaky
clean.

If ever a politician could avoid collateral damage, it is Livingstone. The party
he has just rejoined might be taking a hammering, but Hackney women squeal with
delight when he naughtily suggests they vote for him, 'or you'll wake up under
Steve Norris on Friday morning'. Teenagers hold up cameraphones to photograph
him: even the egg-throwers are bored kids rather than political activists.

Livingstone represents a rare bright spot on Tony Blair's horizon at Thursday's
elections. The Prime Minister might grit his teeth as he marks his cross by the
mayor, but beggars can't be choosers.

However, relaxing over a glass of red wine after his walkabout, even Livingstone
admits some voters will not back him now that he is back in the Labour fold. And
things could be worse, he suggests bluntly, if it were not for his hardline
views on Iraq: 'I don't think a pro-war candidate would have had a chance.'

For thousands of Labour candidates lacking Livingstone's licence to dissent from
the party line, this week's local, mayoral and European elections are a grim
prospect. The Liberal Democrats could yet topple Labour councils in such
bastions as Newcastle upon Tyne, sending tremors throughout the north east, the
region which spawned a generation of New Labour, from Peter Mandelson to Alan
Milburn, Stephen Byers, David Miliband and Blair himself.

Labour MPs fret about losing control in Leeds, and Sheffield is 'on a knife
edge', says one minister. In Liverpool, MP Peter Kilfoyle fears a dismal turnout
among disaffected supporters: 'It's almost an emotional thing, they don't give a
coherent cause for their unhappiness, but I don't doubt the sincerity of what
they say.'

One normally sanguine aide admits that Thursday is going to be 'very, very
difficult'. Another Blairite minister predicts gloomily that the Tories could
end up eight points ahead. If such a meltdown happened, the 'stalking horse'
candidate being excitedly discussed on the party's rebellious fringes - who
could emerge next weekend, ready to demand the overthrow of Blair for Gordon
Brown - could even become a reality.

But is the nation really this angry with Blair? Or is Labour exaggerating talk
of a calamity, so that if 'Super Thursday' turns out slightly less awful than
imagined, it might be confused with victory?

DIGGING A creased navy raincoat from her handbag, Shirley Williams is doing
battle with the weather in Newcastle. After all, she faces little other
opposition.

'Get Labour out!' yells a passing driver. And when the Liberal Democrat peer
stops in a charity shop, 79-year-old Ella Clark confides the kind of story she
needs to hear.

A Labour Party member for more than 60 years, Clark has had enough: 'It was the
war in Iraq, I was dead against it. But it is also about taxes. People are
paying more than ever, but getting poorer services for it.'

Williams's message is a simple one: kick Blair where it hurts - not just over
Iraq, or top-up fees, but over being taken for granted. 'These so-called
bastions of Labour support are very often cardboard bastions. They are often the
ones which are actually easier for us to win.'

However, there is nothing cardboard about Labour's 30- seat lead over the Lib
Dems in Newcastle. Veteran local MP Doug Henderson guesses his rivals are not
snapping up quite enough of the core working-class voters to win, but admits it
will be uncomfortably close:

'It's the teachers and the social workers, who all vote Labour in Newcastle.
Some women are saying on the doorstep, "We don't like this war and don't really
trust Tony Blair much."'

But it is not yet clear who they trust instead; even Ella Clark has not decided
how to vote. The picture emerging is of a chaotic, topsy-turvy election -
further confused by boundary changes in the big cities, and the fiasco of
delayed postal votes - where voters may have fallen out of love with Blair, but
have not yet formed a new monogamous relationship. Which is worrying for their
chief suitor, Michael Howard.

AS THE FINAL worshippers trickled out of Birmingham Central Mosque last Friday
afternoon, they were greeted by only one election stall, manned by the anti-war
coalition Respect, whose local candidate, Dr Mohammed Naseem, happens to be the
mosque's chairman.

In the mosque's latest newsletter, Salma Yaqoob, another Respect candidate,
urges the faithful to vote for candidates who oppose the war, back immediate
withdrawal of British troops and oppose recent anti-terrorism laws. That rules
out all three mainstream parties, scrapping desperately over Birmingham, where
Labour is clinging on to the council without a workable majority.

Once it could have relied on the votes of many of Birmingham's 140,000 Muslims,
but not any more, says Yaqoob, a mother-of-three: 'I have spoken at mosques
across Birmingham, including the Bengali mosque and the Shia mosque, and no one
is saying they will vote Labour.'

Her party - which is only standing for Europe, and wants supporters to back the
Greens or Kashmiri Independents for the council - may help to turn electoral
logic on its head. If Labour's support collapses here, the second-placed Tories
should theoretically cruise to victory. Instead, anger over a war Howard
supported could see his party pushed into third place, behind the anti-war Lib
Dems.

The campaign is unsurprisingly bitter. Labour council leader Sir Albert Bore
accuses Lib Dems - whose leaflets in one heavily Muslim ward showed pictures of
torture in Abu Ghraib jail - of opportunism: 'There is no mention of Iraq by the
Lib Dems in white outer suburbs. They only mention it where there is a Muslim
population.'

They are missing a trick: anti-war sentiment is hurting Labour most not on the
council estates but in the suburbs of Leeds, Sheffield and Manchester. Helen
Jackson, veteran MP for Sheffield Hillsborough, insists her party should beat
off the Lib Dem challenge for control of the city, but admits: 'We will lose
some votes because of the war, certainly in middle class areas around the
university.' The wait for results is 'nail-biting'.

Not everyone is so excited about Super Thursday. Shop assistant Venice shows
brief curiosity when her cigarette break outside Hackney Woolworth's is
interrupted by Livingstone bowling past, but admits she probably won't bother
voting: 'I don't think any of them do much for us.'

Watching Livingstone's departing back over the handlebars of his mountain bike,
19-year-old Junior Swaby is even blunter: 'How do you know that when you vote
for him he's not going to turn round once he's got in and say to us "Oh sorry
people, that hasn't happened"?'

Such disaffection with professional politicians does not bode well for turnout
in an election where mobilising Labour supporters is crucial. And it may also
mean unpredictable upsets as fringe par ties - from the UK Independence Party to
the Greens, who Jackson predicts could benefit in Sheffield from their anti-war
rhetoric and plans to renationalise the railways - cash in on protest votes.

'We are getting lots of tradi tional Labour voters saying they are fed up with
Blair,' says Green Party spokesman Spencer Fitz-Gibbon, who predicts they will
peel voters away from Blair in northern cities, just as Ukip does to Howard in
the south.

With threats from all sides, an urgent debate is beginning within Labour over
how to bounce back. Sir Jeremy Beecham, the Labour chair of the Local Government
Association, says there is no need for radical change, but the party must talk
more directly to its traditional supporters.

'I'm not bothered about stealth taxes, it is stealth benefits which bother me,'
he adds. 'We have concealed what we were doing on redistribution for fear of
alarming the Daily Mail .'

Kilfoyle, however, wants to tackle the root of the anger more directly: 'We need
a simple apology from someone, somewhere over the Iraq war - nobody has said
anything about taking responsibility.'

Such arguments will be thrashed out in detail this week. But with the clock
ticking on the next general election campaign, Labour has less than a year to
work out the answer.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              292 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

Comment: Labour, still the best choice: Some see Thursday's elections as a
chance to protest. But that ignores the government's many successes

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 721 words


FEW PREVIOUS governments have been in such fundamentally impressive shape after
more than seven years in power. Labour is finally getting into its stride as a
moderately social democratic government using economic strength to deliver
improved public services and more social justice.

This government is far from perfect, but the run-up to Thursday's elections is a
good moment to register its successes. More people are in work than ever before.
Britain is enjoying the longest period of economic expansion since records began
in the 19th century. And, for the first time in decades, it is not just the
affluent and the private realm who are enjoying all the fruits of prosperity.
Taxes and benefits are being used to quietly but substantially redistribute
income from the richest to the poorest in society. Important progress is being
made in reducing child and pensioner poverty. The large sums which have flowed
into the health service are producing tangible results. Even the railways, for
so long a wretched reproach to government, show signs of improvement.

So why the universal expectation - not least within the government itself - that
they will do badly in this Thursday's elections? On top of the usual mid-term
blues, there's the problem that little seems to be at stake in elections for the
European Parliament and local government. Fringe parties such as the UK
Independence Party and the BNP get their best chance to prosper when zealots
turn out to vote while moderate people sit on their hands. All the main parties
have disappointed over the European dimension of these elections: none has made
positive arguments for the European Union. Even the most pro-European Liberal
Democrats have opportunistically tried to turn this ballot into a referendum on
Iraq.

As Tony Blair himself recently acknowledged, Iraq currently clouds everything
else achieved by his government. For some traditional supporters of Labour,
their opposition to the removal of Saddam eclipses any other consideration. The
problem for those wishing to register a protest against the war is choosing how
to do so. The Liberal Democrats opposed the war only until it began. Respect,
the George Galloway party, is an unholy alliance of the far-left and reactionary
Islamist fundamentalists. The best place to register an anti-war vote is with
the Greens.

In the London mayoral contest, all three representatives of the main parties say
they were opposed to the invasion of Iraq. So it is for his record at City Hall,
rather than his irrelevant views on foreign policy, that this newspaper would
give a second term to Ken Livingstone. While not without his flaws, he has been
far from the disaster once predicted by the Prime Minister. Mayor Livingstone
has made the job count. His mistakes are outweighed by his achievements. His
opponents have not made a compelling case that they would be superior in the
job. He deserves particular credit for having the courage to introduce the
pioneering Congestion Charge which has reduced traffic and pollution in the
centre of the city. For this reason and others, he is almost certain to be
re-elected, and with the votes of quite a lot of people who would not describe
themselves as naturally Labour.

There will be many other parts of the country where party allegiance is less
important to voters than is rewarding or punishing local leaders for the quality
of service they deliver.

Whether your eye is on the local picture or the big one, the worst mistake
anyone can make anywhere is to think that these elections don't matter. It is
true that they won't decide who governs at Westminster. This is a temptation to
Labour supporters, who would normally come out to defend their government from
the Tories, to stay at home or flirt with protest parties. They should be
mindful that these elections will shape the climate of the run-up to the next
general election. Those who want Labour to carry on delivering on social justice
and investment in public services should be wary of the consequences of boosting
the Conservatives and those further off to the right.

Wherever you put your vote, place it somewhere. Every abstention makes it easier
for parties of the nasty and illiberal fringe to claim to be more representative
of Britain than they really are.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              293 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

Comment : We can't play if we don't get on to the pitch

BYLINE: Sunder Katwala

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 901 words


IT'S HARD to get excited about the European elections unless you're a UKIP fan.
But we Brits will rarely have felt more at home in Europe than when watching
Euro 2004 - as the stars not just of Chelsea and Arsenal but of Bolton and
Middlesbrough turn out across Europe's 16-nation football festival.

Football's cultural revolution - psychologically, the most important European
journey Britons have yet made - might tell us something about the European
Britain we may already have, quietly, become.

Sport offers the ultimate in meritocracy. British football's culture clash could
be settled over 90 minutes: a 'level playing field' to test whether pasta or
lager made the better pre-match meal; was training with the ball better practice
or did being deprived of it all week make players 'hungrier' come match-day? The
answer: 'Europe works.'

Yet football's European journey began with a familiar word: No. When the
European Cup was first mooted (by the French) in 1955, the Football League
blazers told English teams not to take part in these grandiose Continental
schemes.

Splendid isolation could not last. There was immense public enthusiasm for
European engagement, with Wolves' famous floodlit friendlies with Honved and
Spartak Moscow or the greatest of all European Cup finals as di Stefano's Real
Madrid beat Eintracht Frankfurt 7-3 in 1960 in front of 120,000 adoring
Glaswegians at Hampden Park. The English illusion of great power invincibility
proved harder to shatter: 1966 and all that showed that England could be world
beaters after all (with home advantage and a Russian linesman).

More than '30 years of hurt' followed. And before the bright new world of Eric
Cantona, Arsene Wenger and Sven came the darkest mid-Eighties days of isolation
and withdrawal. English football's sins were considerably more grievous than
handbagging our European neighbours over a budget rebate. People died: 39
Juventus fans killed in the Heysel Stadium as Liverpool supporters ran at and
knocked over a terrace wall.

Yet even this seemed only the natural, if horrific, culmination of years of
rioting by English supporters. The NF hardcore support drove everybody else
away. Disfranchised England fans could only envy the vibrant, colourful 'fan
cultures' of the Dutch and, yes, the Scots. Our miserable racists even chanted
'one-nil' after John Barnes scored England's second goal with his brilliant,
mazy dribble in Brazil.

What an indictment of our education system that our home-grown thugs would use
an away trip to Poland to photograph themselves making Nazi salutes at Auschwitz
yet would also riot in Belgium or Holland singing 'If it wasn't for the English,
you'd be Krauts'. If Europe had become simply something to invade, UEFA could
see no option but to ban English teams.

Football's shift from pariah to hegemony seems but a blur now but the European
influence was central. Would Gazza's tears at Italia '90 have had the same
impact without Pavarotti? It was hosting Euro '96 - with the flag of St George
and Football's Coming Home - which finally showed the English could join the
party without smashing it up.

Choosing between the Graham Taylor and the Cantona approach to football was
hardly difficult. But most striking was how the European influence changed the
Brits.

TAKE DAVID Beckham in Madrid. Whatever his recent troubles, he represents the
modern Briton at ease in Europe. What a break with our footballers as 'innocent
abroad' - remember Gazza in Rome? - representing Costa Brava Britain,
encountering 'abroad' with a mixture of suspicion and fear and seeking always to
create a small corner that could remain forever English. Ian Rush complained
that he found Italy 'almost like living in a foreign country', explaining his
failure to reproduce his glut of goals for Liverpool at Juventus. Luther
Blissett swapped Watford for Milan. His first thought on seeing the San Siro
stadium: 'Where's the dog track?'

The Beckham-sceptics will worry that we load too much cultural significance on a
young man with a talented right foot. But the claim that Beckham is a blank
slate for whatever the cultural studies crowd want is wrong. Surely then it
should be easy to make the England captain represent the proud nationalistic,
blood-on-the-shirts, homophobic, 10-pints-before-the-match tradition which
shaped British football for so long? It doesn't work. Beckham is too modern a
figure to stand for traditions which seem to be evolving out of existence before
our eyes.

With a big game looming next Sunday, we can hardly expect David Beckham to solve
Europe's democratic deficit single-handedly. Yet football's new European melting
pot has hardly threatened to wipe out national and local identities. There will
be no homogeneity of styles and tactics in Euro 2004. Is North London any less
proud of Arsene Wenger's champions?

England go to Portugal with our Premiership at the centre of European football
while Tony Blair's Ministers - defending their 'red lines' over Europe's
constitution - still face tabloid pressure to refight the battle of Agincourt at
every summit. Must we always fear Europe as a threat to our very existence? Or
can't we at last realise how much better off we are when fully part of the
European game?

Sunder Katwala is general secretary of the Fabian Society

sunder.katwala@fabian-society.org.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              294 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

They said what?

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 176 words


'You can no more stop people smoking than stop the waves. . . If it knocks some
time off your life, it's only at the end of it. So what?'

Artist David Hockney commenting on proposals to ban smoking in public

'Only my tongue, sir.'

Actor Stephen Fry's response to security staff at Heathrow who asked whether he
had any sharp objects

'They knew the rules. I would love with my heart, give them presents and the
life they've read about in magazines. But I would never be physically faithful.'

Record mogul Eddie Barclay on his nine wives

'Colour TV was incredible. You would turn it on just to look at a tree. It was
so exciting to see it not in black and white.'

Actress Susan Hampshire recalling the 1960s

'I can hardly condemn UKIP as a bunch of boss-eyed, foam-flecked Euro hysterics,
when I have been sometimes not far short of boss-eyed, foam-flecked hysteria
myself.'

Tory MP Boris Johnson

'How did that ever become a politician?'

Celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay addressing former Tory MP Edwina Currie


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              295 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

Status makes the world go round: We are learning that the drive to be admired
and respected is far stronger than the lust for money

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1163 words


CHELSEA'S NEW manager, Jose Mourinho, was signed last week for a reported £5
million a year, while Marks & Spencer's new chief executive, Stuart Rose,
received a signing-on fee of £1.25m, and a base salary of £850,000 a year. Both
were new records and if either man can bring the results the two organisations
seek, presumably they would seem cheap at twice the price.

But are Mourinho and Rose accepting their new jobs just for the cash? Ten years
ago, even a star football manager and a talented CEO were paid at half today's
salaries. If you believe a new book by Sir Michael Marmot, one of Britain's
leading experts on health and social behaviour, what is driving men such as
Mourinho and Rose is not money but status*.

Both are already very rich. What matters is what the cash signifies. By being
rewarded so highly, Rose and Mourinho are confirmed as top dogs; the men with
the highest status in relation to their peers. Cash is just the readiest way of
keeping score, demonstrating that they are at the top of their respective
hierarchies.

Stuart Rose, by saying he needed to show he was hard to get rather than having
any appetite for the cash, has con firmed Marmot's thesis. Status counts, as it
always has.

This shouldn't be a surprise. Alain de Botton has already mapped the human
preoccupation with our relative standing in his bestseller, Status Anxiety. But
Marmot has gone much further. He shows that all societies demonstrate the same
truth. There is a discernible downward gradient from high-status individuals
(and their partners) who live longer, with more satisfying, healthier and
contented lives, even if performing allegedly stressful jobs, to those of
fractionally lower status.

So it goes on down the hierarchy of whatever status ladder counts in the
particular society or subgroup. Oscar winners live four years longer than film
stars not so honoured; permanent secretaries in the Civil Service are happier
than those even in the immediate grades below them.

WHAT COUNTS , suggests Marmot, is not just the gratification of being admired
and respected by others. Social status provides two crucial props to good health
and personal well-being. First, you can't be high status without being closely
integrated into the social group of which you are part. There is a mountain of
evidence that the denser the social networks of which you are a member, the less
likely, for example, you are to fall ill. Social intercourse makes us happy and
happiness is the best possible shield against illness.

Second, the higher your status, the more control and autonomy you are likely to
have over how you live your life and spend your working day. Autonomy spells
satisfaction because it gives greater potential for realising your wants and
choices. Again, there is powerful evidence that this control fends off the deep
stress that triggers the adverse physical reaction to everything from viral
infections to mental disorders.

It is because these drivers are so ubiquitous that Marmot finds a social
gradient in every human phenomenon he studies - from obesity to IQ. Thus his
theory of a status syndrome. Nor does he have much sympathy with the
conservative view or that of the new evolutionary Darwinian psychologists like
Stephen Pinker - that the chain of causation runs from our inherited DNA to
where we stand in the hierarchy, ie that essentially we are where we are because
we were born to be differentially healthy and high-achieving.

The social gradient is so ever-present across the universe of phenomena in all
societies, and the causal impact on health and well-being so irrefutable that it
cannot be true that the over-riding driver of who and what we are is our gene
pool. Genes may create dispositions; the status syndrome solidifies our lived
experience.

Marmot concludes that in a democratic age, the majority are increasingly going
to demand a slice of the autonomy, social engagement and respect that those at
the top of the social gradient experience - and that this struggle is going to
succeed the political battles over equal citizenship rights, the welfare state
and even income distribution that have been fought over for the last century.

He has identified an important movement. The popularity of reality TV, which
enfranchises the individual viewer and gives him or her a stake in status and
celebrity, is surely part of this. So, in another part of the contemporary
landscape, is the new willingness of trade union members to threaten strike
action, not in the name of socialism as in the 1970s but rather to insist that
employers take their issues seriously and respect their claims.

Arguably, the same trend is what lies behind the growth of various
fundamentalisms, whether religious, environmental or political. The appeal of
the Alpha course asserting the verities of Christianity, the animal rights
movement; the fathers' rights campaign and even UKIP and Euroscepticism are that
they variously offer their adherents a route to asserting control, status and
autonomy.

All are driven by the status syndrome; all find social engagement and more
control through what they do. It does not matter whether you approve or
disapprove. What we are witnessing is a restless quest for status with a myriad
of sub-groups offering their particular route up the social gradient, insisting
that what they value is superior to common mores and standards, so offering the
necessary status.

The danger is obvious; Jose Mourinho and Stuart Rose, for example, may have
assuaged their desire for status, but those who work for them may wonder
destructively what their bosses' real motives are, apart from setting a new
salary benchmark for the next round of star hirings.

Similarly, there is a selfishness about single-issue political campaigners. In
the US, Ralph Nader may be satisfying his desire for status in running for
President, but he weakens the opposition to Bush. But we shouldn't underestimate
the deep human need on display. Suicide bombers are less driven by the
desperation of poverty than their profound sense of shame at their society's
standing along with a quest for status that their culture and religion confer.

THE POLITICAL challenge is huge. At home, it is to find a balance between the
diversity of a richly pluralist civil society offering a multiplicity of routes
to status and the necessary minimum that we must hold in common if society is to
stick together.

In foreign policy, it must be to recognise that a willingness to respect the
integrity of positions other than the orthodox Western one is a critical
component of success, especially against terrorism.

On these questions, the British right, itself fragmented into status-seeking
factions, is not at first base; the British left is only fractionally more
advanced. These are new questions to which we need better answers - and we need
them fast.

* Status Syndrome , Bloomsbury £12.99


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              296 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

WITHOUT PREJUDICE: All mouth, no trousers: Why do we make so much fuss about a
bunch of no hope, neo Nazi criminals called the BNP?

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1437 words


THE CHARGING of Joseph Owens with assault causing actual bodily harm last week
exemplifies the presentational difficulties of the British National Party. Until
the case is heard, his alleged victim, a student who needed four stitches to a
gash behind his ear after an 'incident' at Salford university, remains an
alleged victim. Owens, the Merseyside organiser of the BNP, is innocent until
proved guilty beyond reasonable doubt.

But here's the rub for the BNP. If Owens is found guilty, he won't be the black
sheep of the party. As Searchlight, the anti-fascist information centre, puts
it, people who say today's politicians lack convictions should look at the
shed-loads of convictions collected by the BNP. Nick Griffin, the leader, was
convicted of inciting racial hatred. Tony Lecomber, one of Griffin's
lieutenants, has 12 convictions, including one for the possession of home-made
hand-grenades and electronic timing devices and a second for unlawfully wounding
a school teacher. Robert Bennett, a leading BNP activist in Oldham in the 2002
elections campaign, could better that. He had 30, including a conviction for
gang rape.

I could go on through a sizeable chunk of the BNP's membership and put
appropriate convictions for football hooliganism, burglary, theft, possession of
drugs, assault, racially aggravated assault and racial abuse beside their names.
But that would be a long - very long - way of making two obvious points: like
all other neo-Nazi parties, the BNP is a criminal conspiracy; and criminals tend
not to do well at the polls.

Yet for several years predictions of a breakthrough by the BNP have been the
conventional wisdom of the political media. Vast attention has been paid to the
party's odd successes in the Pennine towns. The interest isn't all
sensationalism. Much of the reporting has been genuine investigative journalism.
In common with other European far-right parties, the BNP presents itself as a
party of post-modern nationalism which denies the universal values of human
rights while celebrating difference.

Jean-Marie Le Pen sounded like a good student of the philosophies of Derrida or
Lyotard when he said: 'I love north Africans but their place is in north
Africa.' Griffin, too, has insisted that all he is saying is that different
cultures can't live together. A lot of the journalists who have worked on the
BNP have revealed that fascism lurks behind the cultural relativism, as it does
behind a surprising large number of the ideas of post-modern philosophy.

But when all the journalistic back-slapping is over, hacks have to admit that
much of the appeal of the BNP lies in its exoticism. Here are real neo-Nazis. .
. in dear, old Blighty! We've got football hooliganism, tattooed brutes whose
beer bellies graze the ground and the ever-present possibility of race riots! If
that's not a story, what is?

Coverage of the BNP has been in inverse proportion to its political importance,
as has the significance assigned to it by politicians. Again, I don't want to be
too damming. Labour politicians from the North-West in particular have fought
hard and honourably in the neo-fascist hotspots. It's no good telling a Labour
MP from Oldham that the BNP doesn't matter nationally, when it matters
enormously to the social peace of his constituency.

But when all the caveats have been made, the fact remains that Fleet Street and
Downing Street have created an imaginary monster, a stereotype to put alongside
Essex Man and Worcester Woman: Angry Young Working-Class Man. At a summit at
Chequers in 2002, Philip Gould, New Labour's pollster, presented Tony Blair with
a terrifying vision of the future. According to the Sunday Times , he produced
'recent private-polling and focus-group evidence that showed how there was a
real possibility of a surge in support among the working class for popular
nationalism based on fears about crime and immigration'. 'Angry Young
Working-Class Man' was turning to neo-Nazism.

Typically Gould didn't propose defusing working-class anger by, say, extending
trade-union rights or promoting job security, but by cracking down on
immigration and crime, policies his government and the previous bunch of
scoundrels have been following for at least a decade.

FOR ALL THE hysteria, the far-right has not followed-up its successes in Europe
with a breakthrough in Britain. During the campaign for this week's elections,
YouGov, the most reliable of the polling companies, has found that BNP support
is so small it can't be measured. I should add that the combination of a low
turnout and proportional representation means that anything is possible on
Thursday. In the capital a party needs only 5 per cent of the vote to win a seat
in the London Assembly, and Ken Livingstone's newts would have a fair chance if
they were standing. All that can be said with certainty this weekend, is that
the BNP has failed to appear in the polls and any victories it scrapes will rely
on a miserable turnout rather than a wave of enthusiastic support.

Its real success has been to distort the political vision. Until a few weeks ago
few in the Westminster village noticed the far more significant right-wing
phenomenon of the United Kingdom Independence Party. But whatever you think of
its policies, UKIP is respectable and can appeal to the respectable working and
middle classes. None of its leading members has served a prison term - not even
Robert Kilroy Silk.

In a pamphlet by the Fabian Society last week, Catherine Fieschi lacerated the
media for magnifying the threat of neo-fascism to sell newspapers - 'it's so
much sexier than council tax bands'. She made the cheering point the far-right
is in decline; not only in Britain, where fascist and communist parties have
always failed, but in Europe. For instance, Jean-Marie Le Pen's and Jorg
Haider's parties lost two-thirds of their seats in France's regional and
Austria's national elections last year. While Fieschi doesn't predict that
either will be wiped-out in this week's Euro elections, she reckons internal
strife and the far-right's failure to deliver whenever it wins support 'offer
strong inoculation for democracy against the threat'.

But it is possible for reactionary ideas to succeed when far-right parties fail.
As we've been over the shift to the right on immigration and crime by the
mainstream parties, it may be worth taking a look at the extraordinary and
unprecedented developments on the left, where many are prepared to make excuses
for the Islamists and remnants of Saddam's fascistic forces as they fight the
Americans, and to reach a pact with religious bigotry.

About one million gormless if well-intentioned marchers allowed themselves to be
organised by the Stop the War coalition last year. The coalition has mutated
into the Respect the Unity party, led by George Galloway, which is basing its
appeal to the electorate on crude communalist politics.

In London, Respect is circulating a leaflet boosting Galloway as a 'fighter for
Muslims', and claiming 'Tony Blair wants to see George Galloway silenced. We, as
Muslims, want to see him continue to speak out for us.' (In truth, Galloway
isn't too keen on Muslims speaking out. He saluted the 'courage' of Saddam
Hussein, who forced silence on the mainly Muslim population of Iraq, and
supported the military coup in Pakistan, saying that 'in poor Third World
countries like Pakistan, politics is too important to be left to petty
squabbling politicians'.)

In Birmingham, Respect has a pact with the People's Justice Party (PJP), a
Kashmiri community group. It backs Respect for the Euro elections, Respect backs
its candidates in the local council elections. A leaflet sent out by the PJP and
then withdrawn told its supporters not to think of voting for the Liberal
Democrats because they are 'in favour of equal rights for gays and lesbians'.

As the Alliance for Workers Liberty, a small group of honest Marxists points
out, nothing like this has been seen in the history of the left. The left has
always emphasised the need to break down the barriers of race and religion to
achieve working-class solidarity. In recent years it has added the causes of
freeing women and gays from religious and political prohibitions to its shopping
list. But all of that is old hat, apparently.

There is a glimmer of good news amid the murk. According to the pollsters,
Respect is making as much headway as the BNP. I know I risk sounding like Robert
Kilroy-Silk, but if Thursday's elections confirm their predictions, I for one
will be proud to be British.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              297 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

Review: INTERVIEW: 'My TV job wasn't my life, it gave me my life': After his
sacking by the BBC, ROBERT KILROY-SILK is now standing on an anti-European
right-wing ticket. The former Labour MP insists he is no racist... but his wife
will kill him when she finds out that his new party is pro-hunting

BYLINE: LYNN BARBER

SECTION: Observer Review Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2077 words


AS A BACK-FROM-THE-DEAD profile- raising exercise it has been a triumph. You can
imagine what Max Clifford might have advised: Let me see - you've been off the
box since January and your appearance on Have I Got News For You was a fiasco.
Soon you will be forgotten, so you have a stark choice: you can do bushtucker
trials in the rainforest, or be shouted at by Gordon Ramsay, or follow Vanessa
Feltz into the Big Brother house. But Robert Kilroy-Silk had a better idea -
what about running as a Euro candidate for the UK Independence Party? It sounded
far-fetched but, amazingly, it worked. His picture has been in the papers every
day and, when he produced the incomparable gift of Joan Collins, the nation's
joy was unconfined.

But supposing he wins? Do we have to take him seriously? After all, he was a
Labour MP from 1974 to 1985 - unlike most UKIP candidates, he is not a complete
naif. And, through his column in the Sunday Express , through his l6 years on
Kilroy! , he can claim to have mastered that terrifying beast, Middle England.
He could in theory take over the leadership of the Ukip - perhaps rechristen it
the Joan Collins Fan Club. But is that really what he's about?

I went to see him at his home in Buckinghamshire - a substantial pile formerly
owned by Ozzy Osbourne. He was in a meeting when I arrived, so I chatted to his
wife Jan, whom many people consider to be the brains behind Kilroy. They were
school sweethearts in Birmingham and have been married for 42 years, with only a
slight blip when he was found to have had a love child by a mistress while he
was an MP. Later, he told me, 'I fancy Jan now as much as I ever did and I love
her probably more now I think - I can't imagine loving her more than I do. She's
my best friend, the person I trust.' She runs all his business affairs and, as
we shall see, exercises considerable influence over his politics.

Soon Kilroy appears - he looks tired and a bit less orange than of yore, but
still handsome, at 61. He says he's been campaigning non-stop and it's a vast
constituency, the East Midlands, covering six counties. Does he think he has a
chance of winning? 'That's difficult to say. If it wasn't for the postal vote, I
think probably we would. YouGov did a poll before it was announced that I was
standing and 5 per cent said they would vote for Ukip and then they asked if
Robert Kilroy-Silk was a candidate how would you vote and it went up to l5 per
cent. And that was before we even started campaigning. So on that basis we
should win because you only need l4 per cent to be guaranteed a seat. But the
postal ballot is a great imponderable.'

His involvement with Ukip started a couple of months ago when he had lunch with
his friend the Earl of Bradford (Ukip candidate for the West Midlands) at their
house in Spain. Kilroy was banging on about Europe and Bradford suggested he
should stand. He thought it was too late, but Bradford somehow fixed it and the
constituency invited him to stand. 'I said I would only go there if they wanted
me almost by acclamation - I used that word - and they assured me they did.'

BUT HE ONLY met the other Ukip candidates a couple of weeks ago at the launch of
the manifesto. 'I'm being absolutely honest about this, it all happened very
quickly and we were looking at each other saying "This is amazing". And for me
it was wonderful, it was incredibly fortuitous, because of the time in my life
and everything that's happened to me since I got sacked by the BBC, and all the
political correctness - not being able to speak your mind and stand up for your
country, not to feel ashamed about being British. I thought it was too late,
that I'd missed the boat.'

I casually remarked that I first came across Ukip a few years ago when it was
campaigning on a pro-hunting manifesto. Kilroy yelped as if I'd shot him.
'Don't! Don't start that!' But what did I say? 'Don't mention it to Jan! She is
virulently opposed to hunting. That's the one thing that does divide us - Jan is
totally anti-blood sports'. So if Ukip started campaigning for hunting, she'd be
upset? He shudders, rolls his eyes to the ceiling and says, 'Oh I think she'd be
deeply upset.' But doesn't she KNOW what the Ukip stands for? 'Oh she does know,
because she read the entire manifesto. Jan is a very political animal - in many
ways more political than I am. (Her father was a shop steward.) She has much
stronger views and she's very well informed. And she read the manifesto well
before I did, the whole lot. She read it on the plane coming back from Spain,
and I'm sitting there thinking Ohmigod, she's going to find something terrible,
what will she say? Because I hadn't signed up to it then but I'd kind of made up
my mind and it was a big decision, because I could look a right prat. And if Jan
had turned round and said "This is awful", that would have sunk me. But she
didn't. She turned round on the plane and said, "This is my party".' Did he read
the manifesto? 'Yes, of course I read it before I said I would go ahead.'

Even so, he doesn't seem entirely familiar with Ukip's literature. The party's
website has 'A message from Robert Kilroy-Silk' which includes the sentence, 'I
want to explain that we do not have to put up with immigration being out of
control.' When I quoted it, he asked sharply, 'Where did I say that?' On the
Ukip website. 'Oh right,' he said. 'Could you repeat it?' So I did. 'Oh that's
fine,' he said, obviously relieved that he could endorse his own message. 'Well
what that says is what the Prime Minister said a couple of weeks ago when thingy
resigned (presumably Beverley Hughes) that our immigration system and asylum
system is a shambles, that it's out of control - and I think that's terrible. We
have to be in control of our borders, we have to know what numbers of people are
coming here and where from. What I do think is wrong is for us to go all around
the Third World recruiting nurses and depriving the Third World of people who
are needed there, when we've got four million - or is it two million? -
unemployed.'

But that message - 'We do not have to put up with immigration being out of
control' - will seem like a green light to racists. 'No of course it's not.
That's the trouble - that means that people cannot have a view on an important
issue and make sensible remarks without being called a racist. That's terrible,
that's the level to which it's come, and that is why people feel so bitter and
resentful, they cannot express their genuine anxieties without being accused of
racism.'

He claims that he is not a racist and that his remarks about Arabs in the Sunday
Express were misinterpreted. He says if I read the column, I would find that 'it
talks about Arab regimes, Arab states, it never talks about Arabs.' Strange,
because I have the column in front of me and it does talk about Arabs and asks
'What do they think we feel about them?. . . That we admire them for being
suicide bombers, limb-amputators, women-repressors?' But he persists in
believing that 'There is nothing derogatory there. I was actually standing up
for downtrodden Arab women.' Sweet!

Anyway he was severely punished for those views - sacked by the BBC from the
show he had fronted for l6 years. At the time, the BBC said that he might return
as a presenter in some different capacity, but he says now, 'I wouldn't hold my
breath.' They also agreed that his company, Kilroy TV Co, could continue to
produce a show for the morning slot. But the show, Now You're Talking , will end
next month. 'The BBC decided not to recommission it because the ratings halved,
basically. They told me, "It's not the same programme without you, it doesn't
work without you." So all the staff will lose their jobs? 'Yes. The crew, the
cameramen who worked with me for l6 years, the nannies that looked after the
children, the people who drove the cars - there was a whole kind of family and
that's been destroyed.'

And does he blame himself for that? 'Of course,' he says, but immediately goes
on, 'I am not responsible. The BBC, as everyone in the street says, they come up
to me and say "You were treated badly". That's the expression I get everywhere.
"It's terrible what they did to you. I used to love your programme, I used to
watch it while I did the ironing".

'Now all those people, all those nice people - my mum, your mum, my aunts (his
mother is dead; my mother has never watched Kilroy ; I can't speak for his
aunts) - all the people I've been meeting for the last two weeks or so, good,
decent people - have all been disenfranchised by the BBC. Their views weren't
taken into account. And that's what we mean by politically correct - there's no
better example than the way in which I was treated. It was political correctness
gone mad.'

SO THIS IS the nub of it - he is speaking for all 'these nice, decent,
hard-working people' disenfranchised by political correctness, from waving the
flag, from saying what they think about immigration and also, perhaps more
important, from watching Kilroy! . Their voices are not heard: only Kilroy can
speak for them. And indeed he often does, putting on a strange sort of Dora
Bryan char-lady accent - at times he delivers such long monologues in this voice
you wonder if it's a sort of alter ego, like Dame Edna with Barry Humphries. 'Oh
we know who Kilroy is,' he burbles, 'we know he's not impartial, we know he's
got strong views - that's why we like him, because he speaks for us, he gives
the people in authority a hard time, he gives them a kicking.' He utters reams
of this stuff, claiming to be the voice of the public, chattering endlessly
about the virtues of Kilroy.

He says he 'can't remember' what he's been doing since he left the BBC in
January but he's been very busy. 'All I know is that I haven't had time to do
all the things I wanted to do. I used to complain at work, I'd say "It's a
bloody nuisance being here - I've got things to do at home". And I have - I
breed oriental pheasants, I've got three aviaries, with cockatiels and
parakeets, I've got deer. I love gardening and I never have enough time to sit
down and read all the books I want to read.' He also claims to be writing a
book, but he won't tell me what on - not an autobiography because 'I don't think
it's time yet'. But also he is 'in talks' about a television venture.

He claims he doesn't miss TV. 'People think you want to be on television but -
you will believe me or not as you wish, but I can only tell you the truth - it
would never bother me if I was never on television again. I'd be very happy to
stand behind the camera if they'd pay me the same amount of money they pay you
to be on screen. I don't get anything like the buzz from television that I get
from politics - there's no comparison.'

So would he be prepared to make the financial sacrifice of devoting his life to
politics? Would he, for instance, give up one of his houses? 'Would I? Could I?
Of course I could, but would I? I would not want to be poor. I've been poor,
very poor, and I would never want to go back.' Not poor, I suggest, but just
less rich - make do with one large house instead of two? 'I wouldn't want to do
that because they (the houses) mean so much to the family - the children, the
grandchildren and my larger extended family - all our aunts, uncles, cousins
congregate here several times a year. My Jewish friend tells me that I'm an
honorary Jew because of the way I place this emphasis upon the family - I don't
know where that comes from, perhaps because my father was killed in the war -
but I do feel a responsibility for them. Jan says I'm a control freak.'

It sounds as though he's pretty committed to maintaining his lifestyle, which
means he has to keep earning big money. I asked what he'd been living on since
January. 'Well I write for the Express and I have my own income - but I'm not
going to go into that.' How does he see his future? 'It's a very difficult
question. I don't know. There's too many things I want to do and I'm not sure
which one I want to pick as the frontrunner. My job wasn't my life - it gave me
my life, it gave me the means to lead my life. But there's so many options now
about where we live, how I earn a living, that it's a bit bewildering.' I notice
he doesn't say that he will be leading Ukip to a brave new dawn, or even that he
will be serving as an MEP. Perhaps the bushtucker trials still await.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              298 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 6, 2004

Observer Magazine: OTV: Watching brief: RAFAEL BEHR: Our attitude to the rest of
Europe is at best ambivalent. Just look at the TV schedules

BYLINE: RAFAEL BEHR

SECTION: Observer Magazine Pages, Pg. 68

LENGTH: 549 words


There's nothing like a European football championship to tap into the collective
id of the nation. The superego of 21st-century-style TV that makes us love
Europe enough to want to sell up and move to a renovated cowshed in Montenegro
is no match for centuries of intra-continental bloodlust.

Millions more people will spend next Sunday revelling in the spirit of Agincourt
when England play France than ever watch A Place in the Sun or any Nicer Food,
Better Climate, Where Did It All Go Wrong? piece of Continent envy.

By coincidence, this year's festival of ersatz war is preceded by today's
anniversary of the big push in the real war. In advance of Euro 2004, TV
schedulers are playing hypnotherapist, lulling us into a trance on the sofa and
drawing out the memory of the time when shame-faced Europe thanked Britain
humbly for its salvation.

In the week between D-Day nostalgia and footie-driven flag-brandishing you just
about have time to nip out for Pringles and vote UK Independence Party.

Maybe that's a bit harsh. British society, when not being thuggishly hostile, is
generally tolerant of foreignness. This is not the same thing as being
open-minded. Tolerance implies something genuinely unpleasant that is being
tolerated magnanimously. It is as much a matter of politeness as ethics.

And our ambivalence screams out from the TV. The Continent is depicted as a
giant fairground: thrilling for a while, but a bit disorientating, and makes you
feel a bit sick after a while.

While holiday shows drool over sun-drenched olive groves, the likes of Tarrant
on TV and Jeremy Clarkson Meets the Neighbours crow at the otherness of
Europeans with the patronising sneer of a gouty Colonel Blimp mystified by
native habits. How did Mr Top Gear get commissioned to drive around the
Continent haranguing people with misinformation about European Union budgetary
policy? At least when Basil Fawlty goose-stepped around his hotel the joke was
on him. And at least it was funny.

Political correctness has, thank God, purged the schedules of out-and-out racist
representations of minorities at home. But our depiction of the French, Germans
and Spanish is stuck in the days of The Black and White Minstrel Show and Mind
Your Language

We also like to treat Americans like anthropological curios, but they fight back
with the heavy artillery of quality TV exports. The boom of incoming Friends or
Sex and the City drowns out the single round rat-a-tat of a Louis Theroux Meets
Bonkers Militiamen in California.

No such defence from Europe. Subtitled films are the stuff of graveyard slots
and no continental TV serial has ever made it here.

There was once Eldorado . It was originally conceived by writer Tony Holland to
have a wry take on the Little England mentality on the Costa del Expat. Then it
morphed in production into a kind of soapy tribute to the Treaty of Rome. That
was the last time a fellow EU national had a speaking part in their own language
on prime time, and it was one of the biggest flops in the history of anything.
That was 1992.

Isn't it about time we stopped peering at Europe through the TV screen like
scientists handling toxic chemicals in a fume cupboard? You can always catch old
episodes of 'Allo, 'Allo on UK Gold.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              299 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

UKIP 'RACIST'

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


THE founder of the UK Independence Party has warned people NOT to vote for them
in Thursday's Euro elections.

Lecturer Dr Alan Sked, who quit after rows, claimed: "They are racist and have
been infected by the far right."

He attacked the party's three MEPs, saying: "They enjoy their cushy life in
Brussels. They're obsessed by the EU gravy train."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              300 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

BACON AT THE MOVIES: ARABIAN PLIGHTS

BYLINE: RICHARD BACON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 241 words


The Silence Between Two ThoughtsDrama CERT: 12A

TWO foreign films on one page. I pray to god the UK Independence Party aren't
reading this.

This, in fact, is a film from the Axis Of Evil - not Disney, Iran.

So strict are the authorities there that if a woman is caught watching this
film, she'll be politely asked to leave.

Not only that, dear readers, but the original 35mm film on which this was shot
was confiscated - meaning that what you see in the cinema is nothing more than a
video copy of the original.

It's a bit like getting a pirate in a car boot, but one with an advanced WMD
programme. Should there be a Van Helsing 2, would the Iranian authorities mind
stepping in.

It's heavy going this, and it's one of those pieces of work that seems unfair to
criticise, because of the courage shown by the filmmakers in the first place.
Not so much a case of a film going straight to video, as the director going
straight to jail.

Dealing with elements of fundamental Islam, and filmed just three miles from the
Afghan border, this isn't entertainment so much as a cross between a turbulent
News 24 report and a really complex book on morality in the Arabic World.

The Silence Between Two Thoughts isn't really the type of film you'll want to
see if you're out with your mates.

Well, not unless you all work in the Faculty of Middle Eastern Studies at
Middlesex University, in which case, you're quids in!

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              301 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

Howard aide revealed as the man from UKIP

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and Judith O'Reilly

SECTION: Home news; News; 10

LENGTH: 849 words


A SENIOR aide to Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, has been revealed as a
former candidate for the UK Independence party (UKIP) who once described the
European Union as "an alien impostor which has attached itself to Europe".

George Eustice, a former strawberry farmer who is now a key member of Howard's
team, stood in the last European elections for UKIP five years ago.

The revelation that a former anti-Europe activist is at the heart of the Tory
leader's office will be embarrassing to the party which launched a fierce attack
on UKIP in the lead up to Thursday's European and local elections.

Howard has labelled UKIP's members as "extremists" and the Central Office spin
machine released a document describing them as "cranks and political gadflies".

Eustice stood unsuccessfully as a candidate for UKIP in the south-west of
England in the 1999 European elections. At his election address he wore a "Leave
the European Union" slogan emblazoned across his chest.

A Eurosceptic who has beeen active in the anti-euro currency "No" campaign, he
joined Howard's team as a press secretary in January this year.

When contacted last night by The Sunday Times, Eustice admitted that he
regretted his links and claimed that he no longer held such strident views.

"With hindsight it is obviously something I regret -it was a mistake," he said.

"Although there are quite a lot of well-meaning people involved in UKIP they are
quite seriously deluded.

"I joined UKIP at the end of 1998, stood as a candidate a few months later and
left immediately afterwards and then joined the Conservatives.

"I was quite sceptical about the EU and I was persuaded to join (UKIP) by some
people I knew."

There was evidence last week that support for UKIP was climbing both among
Eurosceptic Tories and among disillusioned Labour supporters wanting to give
Tony Blair a "wake-up call".

Analysts predict that Thursday's elections could see a high number of
"split-ticket" voters, who will support UKIP for Europe but who will vote for
the Tories or Labour in council elections.

UKIP will receive fresh ammunition in its battle to wrest support from the
Conservatives with the publication of a study claiming that Britain would be £20
billion a year better off outside the European Union.

The cost-benefit analysis by the think tank Civitas, which will be published in
full next month, claims that British membership of the EU might cost as much as
£33.3 billion, but an "ultra-cautious" estimate would be £19.63 billion.

The research will bolster the band of former politicians and celebrities who are
grouping around UKIP. Teresa Gorman, the former Conservative member for
Billericay, has become the latest retired MP to endorse the anti-EU party.
Gorman rebelled against John Major's government over the Maastricht treaty in
1992.

She said this weekend: "I admire those people prepared to come out onto the
street and say they want us to regain our sovereignty and I despair of all the
political parties over this."

Shas been joined by Rory McGrath, panellist on the BBC sports quiz They Think
It's All Over. He said Conservative claims the anti-euro party was "full of
cranks and political gadflies" were "insulting to the huge number of informed,
intelligent and high-minded people I know who want to vote UKIP because they see
more chance of the British economy being dynamic, competitive and flexible if it
is unshackled from the increasingly moribund, unwieldy and bureaucratic
monstrosity that is the EU." He continued: "I have never voted in European
elections before, but I might this time. UKIP is by far the most attractive
prospect."

Blair has been provided with a welcome respite as UKIP has dominated the
headlines but he still faces a poor set of results on Thursday. He is preparing
to embark on a fightback when the polls close to re-establish the government's
and his own momentum.

He plans a major speech on public services and Labour's "radical" third term
agenda. He will also strive to stop talk about when he will stand down as prime
minister.

Despite the erosion of Labour support, it is Howard who stands to lose the most
if UKIP maintains its momentum into the elections. A recent poll gave UKIP the
support of 14% of voters in the European polls. In the same survey the
Conservatives had 28%, Labour 27% and the Liberal Democrats 18%.

The UKIP share rose to 18% among those who definitely intended to vote and the
party claims to have the support of 22% of voters in southern England. In the
1999 elections the party won 7% of the vote nationwide.

An ICM poll for the News of the World of 202 key marginal constituencies shows
that the Conservatives are 5% ahead of Labour -at 33% to Labour's 28%, just one
point ahead of the Lib Dems at 26%. However, those figures when translated into
real seats would still secure Blair a 107-seat majority at a general election.

That is bad news for Howard, who has to aim to cut Labour's majority to less
than 50 seats.

Additional reporting: Gareth Walsh


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              302 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

Another slow Tory crash into the buffers of Europe

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: Features; News; 21

LENGTH: 1385 words


Due to a muddle between two Edinburgh hotels with similar names, my wife and I
found ourselves staying in a rather down- at-heel establishment. The manager
looked apologetic as he showed us into a room with four beds and no telephone.

I was then a cabinet minister and the hotel employees grew visibly excited when
the Post Office delivered a padlocked linen sack containing my red box. I had
forgotten the padlock key and had to borrow the hotel's scissors to chop through
the bag and access my secret papers.

The agitation continued the next morning when the manager pounded at my door to
tell me I had a phone call. The telephone was at reception and I went down in my
pyjamas. It was Michael Howard, the home secretary, ringing to ask my opinion of
the story dominating that morning's Sunday newspapers. The knock on the door had
woken me and anyway that modest hotel did not supply English newspapers. So I
had to ask Michael what he was on about. "Apparently John Major has called us
bastards!"

The prime minister had been caught on tape speaking, as he thought, off the
record. Asked why he did not sack the Eurosceptic members of his cabinet, he had
replied that he had enough dissidents on the back benches without putting
another three bastards out there.

I record the curious incident because at the time Howard clearly felt included
in Major's disparaging description. In fact there were four candidates for the
title of bastard, Peter Lilley and John Redwood being the other two. History now
records that the bastards were Portillo, Lilley and Redwood, although as far as
I know Major never said so explicitly. It is a tribute to Howard that although
he was at least as virulent a Eurosceptic as the rest of us, he has somehow
subsequently escaped the bastard rap.

Perhaps he was just good at defensive spin with the media, but I accept that
Major probably did dislike him the least. He found him less annoying even though
Howard was definitely the cabinet's pre- eminent sceptic. He was always the
first to speak and the most persistent. It is a characteristic of barristers in
politics that they do not cease to press their argument at the point where
others feel the need to soft pedal if only for the sake of good manners.

For whatever reason in Howard's case, the prime minister's exasperation was
tinged with respect. Howard truly had been the architect of the version of the
Maastricht treaty that Britain signed. During the negotiations he told Major
that what mattered was to avoid British participation in the single currency and
acceptance of the social chapter (which covered additional rights for workers
that we thought would make this country uncompetitive).

As today the Tory leader battles against the United Kingdom Independence party
in the European parliament elections, his Maastricht record is both a strength
and a weakness. He proved himself reliable and effective in stemming the tide
flowing towards European integration. Nonetheless his name is associated with a
treaty that many Conservative MPs regarded as anathema, despite the fact that
Britain was excluded from its most important provisions. The UKIP argues today
that the Tories, for all their protestations, when in office have at best merely
retarded federalism and should not be trusted with the Eurosceptic vote.

Many Conservatives think that Europe is their secret electoral weapon despite an
abundance of evidence that it is their curse. They believe that the majority of
the country shares their hostility to further integration, and that is probably
true. The problem is that the Tories appear fanatical about it and fanaticism
puts off voters. With some Conservative MPs you can see from their faces that it
is the only subject that really lights them up. It is obvious to the public that
these MPs care about Europe much more than about the National Health Service or
schools. So whenever Europe is on the agenda it is bad news for the
Conservatives.

Iain Duncan Smith's one achievement (I use the number advisedly) was to stop the
party talking about it. That was a good idea, not least because whenever
scepticism seems to be gaining the upper hand in the party, Ken Clarke, Lord
Heseltine, Lord Hurd and Chris Patten take to the television screens to shift
the balance. Not surprisingly, the talk last week was again of splits, as Tory
peers who endorse the UKIP have lost the whip.

The UKIP has fought a good campaign, apparently with the improbable help of
President Clinton's former adviser Dick Morris. They have trotted out their
celebrities such as Joan Collins and many column inches have been devoted to
debating where all their money comes from. But the biggest boost to the UKIP by
far came last week when Howard devoted a speech to attacking them.

Observing the evolution of Tory tactics in this European election has been like
watching a train crash in slow motion. Early on, Conservative Central Office
issued an anti-UKIP briefing document.

It looked like a blunder. I felt confident that the wise heads in Howard's
office would advise that paying the UKIP such attention would communicate
nothing to the electorate except the smell of fear. So when it was announced
that the Tory leader would dignify the UKIP with a speech, the media sniffed
that unmistakable odour on the wind and gathered excitedly, paying him attention
but for all the wrong reasons.

I found the Tory approach quaintly old-fashioned. There are those (apparently
led by Liam Fox, the party's joint chairman) who still think that electors will
believe what the Conservatives say about the UKIP and be swayed by it. There is
a touching faith that calling them "extremists" or revealing the poor voting
records of their MEPs will deter electors from switching support. The
Conservatives, of all people, should understand that English nationalism is a
deeply emotional thing that is immune to both insults and detailed rebuttal. The
Tory onslaught merely suggested that voting UKIP might not be so pointless after
all.

Using the word "extreme" has caused havoc. In truth you cannot say that it is
extreme to believe that the United Kingdom could exist outside the European
Union, even though there are many arguments against it. Robert Kilroy-Silk
fenced with Redwood on Newsnight last week and did a good job of looking less
swivel-eyed than his Tory opponent.

If anyone needed proof that the European issue is a curse for the Conservatives,
this campaign has supplied it, but I do not expect for a moment that most Tory
MPs will grasp that. In a constituency such as mine (Kensington and Chelsea) we
lose the votes of a few sophisticates because of our hostility to the European
project.

Elsewhere the nuances of our European policy cannot compete with the UKIP's
naked hostility among voters who like their politics to be clear-cut. Our
"success" in getting Tony Blair to promise a referendum on the constitution
will, before long, have us out campaigning on Europe again, looking obsessive
once more. It will distract us further from gripping the domestic issues that
interest the public much more.

Given his solid record of resisting the creep of federalism, Howard must find it
frustrating to lose a part of the Europhobic vote. If he were prime minister you
could rely on him to say no to the new constitution and he would certainly not
entertain joining the euro. Britain would have to find a new accommodation with
our European partners as they move on to ever-closer union and we would be set
on a new path.

Some Tories dream that such a crisis would trigger Britain's withdrawal from the
European Union. Maybe Howard occasionally entertains such wistful thoughts
himself. But it would not happen. In the world of real politics, which the UKIP
does not need to live in because it will never form a government, populist
resentment of Brussels is not enough. A wise foreign policy keeps Britain allied
to both America and Europe. While joining the euro would harm Britain's economy,
so would withdrawal from the single market.

Howard has deftly avoided going down in history as a bastard. He now hopes to
enter the national record as prime minister, but not as the one who took Britain
out of Europe.

michael.portillo@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

Leave Joan alone

SECTION: Features; News; 22

LENGTH: 243 words


IN A FEEBLE attempt to be witty and belittle UKIP, Richard Woods ridicules my
wife, Joan Collins, for her support for the party (The New Addams Family, Focus,
last week).

He attacks her career, as if her movies automatically situate her below the rest
of the citizenry in having a political opinion or preference. It is an argument
often used by those who believe women should never have been given the ballot,
that entertainers should not use their high profile to give credibility to a
political movement.

That argument is highly elitist and archaic in a society that turns out in
droves to watch half-dressed celebrities cavorting in the jungle and leaves the
country's fate to the 20% or so who vote. In her many articles, Joan has
explained what it seems much of Britain believes.

Should Woods not be criticising her views rather than her movie career? He looks
for a conspiracy theory and a demented Wizard of Oz spin doctor. Max Clifford
had nothing to do with my wife's decision. A group of lovely middle-class
punters, who happened to be UKIP members, came backstage after seeing Full
Circle in Woking to congratulate her for the evening's entertainment and also
for the article The Sunday Times had commissioned against Britain adopting the
European constitution.

I was contacted by Nigel Farage, a UKIP MEP, and my wife agreed to be a patron
of UKIP and for what she thought was a worthy cause.

Percy Gibson London.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Letter

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              304 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

Revealed: secret SNP tax plans

BYLINE: Jason Allardyce

SECTION: Home news; Scotland News 7

LENGTH: 643 words


PLANS by the SNP to raise taxes and impose costly new regulations on businesses
are contained in a secret document obtained by The Sunday Times.

A policy paper written by Jim Mather, the party's enterprise spokesman, suggests
that higher taxes would be needed to fund better transport links in an
independent Scotland.

Raising National Insurance, income tax for higher earners and indirect taxation
- including imposing a levy on out-of-town supermarket parking -are among the
options being examined.

The document also reveals plans to force English and foreign-based companies
trading in Scotland to set up headquarters north of the border so that they can
be taxed by a Scottish government rather than Westminster.

The leaking of the proposals, branded "the politics of Albania" by Alistair
Darling, the Scottish secretary, is a blow for the SNP ahead of this week's
European election.

Their disclosure will heap pressure on John Swinney, the party leader, already
fighting for his political life and desperate to avoid further losses.

There is more bad news for Swinney today with an opinion poll predicting that
the SNP will lose one of its two Euro seats on Thursday.

The poll, for the Sunday Mail, also shows the Tories on course to lose a seat,
with the UK Independence party picking up a seat.

The SNP, under Swinney's leadership, has been keen to portray itself as
business-friendly and capable of developing policies that will attract inward
investment to Scotland.

However, the leaked policy document suggests that companies such as BP, Deutsche
Bank and London-based Diageo, one of Scotland's largest whisky concerns, would
be forced to set up new management, administration and accounting functions and
pay taxes to a Scottish exchequer if they wish to continue trading in an
independent Scotland.

The Confederation of British Industry (CBI) warned that such a proposal would
drive businesses out of Scotland, leading to job losses.

"This would add costs and bureaucracy to UK and overseas business operators in
Scotland and it is hard to understand why the SNP would wish to impose such a
policy," said Iain MacMillan, director of CBI Scotland.

Darling added: "Here is the proof that the SNP would reduce Scotland to an
economic wasteland. An amazing mix of Soviet-style command and control and
Ronald Reagan-style neo-liberalism, it completely ignores the realities of
today's global economy.

"It would cut Scotland off from its UK market, strangle Scottish businesses with
red tape and give foreign and English-based companies a clear signal that under
the SNP they should pack up and go. This is the economics of 1970s Albania, not
of today's Scotland."

The SNP's "penny for Scotland" policy at the 1999 Holyrood election, which would
have seen Scots paying 1p more in income tax than the rest of the UK, was blamed
for the party's poor showing.

The document reveals plans for "a radical approach" to cutting air fares and
ferry charges to parts of Scotland "through more substantial subsidies". It also
says there is a need to upgrade Scotland's trunk roads, to fund the restoration
of the Borders railway through to Carlisle and of airport rail links in
Edinburgh and Glasgow. It suggests "increasing taxation to pay for transport
infrastructure".

The document says branches of British-based companies would be forced to
register in an independent Scotland. "They will be required to have adequate
accounting, management and administration functions to fulfil their obligation
to keep proper records, submit tax assessments and pay taxes to the Scottish
exchequer."

The proposals have attracted criticism from within the SNP. "This is absolutely
crazy. I can't believe that we're actually going to make it more difficult for
people to do business here," said one source.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              305 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

Now is the hour of reckoning

BYLINE: Kenny Farquharson

SECTION: Features; Ecosse; 2

LENGTH: 1404 words


John Swinney tells Kenny Farquharson he is the best man to lead the SNP despite
his colleagues' doubts

In John Swinney's office there is a stained-glass panel hanging at the window to
catch the sun. Made by an artist in Swinney's North Tayside constituency, it
incorporates the SNP logo and is engraved with a line from Scots Wha Hae: "Now's
the day and now's the hour." For some nationalist MSPs, the day and the hour
that cannot come too soon is Swinney's resignation as party leader.

If the SNP performs poorly in this week's European elections, Swinney's critics
believe he should go. There are only so many elections a party leader can lose,
they argue, before he should make way for somebody else. Already Swinney has
taken the party into two contests and come away with less than he started with.
In the last UK general election the SNP lost an MP and, in the Scottish
parliament elections last year, the party suffered the humiliating loss of eight
MSPs, more than a quarter of its representation.

Three strikes and you're out is the view taken by a small but vocal band of
critics led by Campbell Martin, the MSP currently suspended from the party
because of his attacks on Swinney's credibility. "We have reached the stage,"
wrote Martin in a magazine article last week, "where the SNP body cannot take
much more of this Swinney-inflicted punishment."

Other MSPs agree, but are keeping their heads down for now. Last year's crushing
of a leadership challenge from an obscure activist bought Swinney some time, as
did a draconian reform of the SNP's disciplinary code earlier this spring. He is
confident of the loyalty of the grassroots of his party for now at least. But he
knows full well that Thursday's ballot result will be seen as a verdict on his
leadership, with a poor result provoking new doubts about whether he is up to
the job. Erstwhile allies like the former MSP Mike Russell have darkly predicted
a visit from "the men in grey kilts".

In the parliament last week, Martin added to Swinney's woes by stealing his
thunder during an SNP-led debate on Iraq, speaking in support of a motion from
the Scottish Socialist party.

Interviewed first thing in the morning before a busy parliamentary day, Swinney
looks a little weary about having to justify his political existence when he
should be trying to fight an election campaign. Recently turned 40, he has the
beginnings of a paunch despite his fondness for mountain biking and has visibly
aged.

So, Mr Swinney, how does it feel to be fighting for your political life?

"I don't think that's what I'm doing at all," he says, the tone even. "What I'm
doing is leading the SNP into the European election campaign that I am
determined to win, and I think we have very good prospects of winning it.

"For me personally, I have committed myself to the long-term leadership of the
SNP. That's what the SNP has asked me to do, and that's what I intend to do."

Does he not accept that a poor result would legitimise questions about his
leadership? "There are no circumstances in which I am giving up my job after
June 10," he says. "None."

He adds as an afterthought: "Whatsoever."

This has been Swinney's recent mantra as he tries to dampen down speculation
about his future. But further probing reveals even he accepts there comes a time
in every politician's life when he has to decide if he is an asset or a
liability.

According to Swinney that moment is not this week's vote, or even the UK general
election, which is expected next year.

Decision day for Swinney appears to be the first Thursday in May 2007, the day
of the next Scottish parliament election. "I have said I will take the SNP into
the 2007 elections, and that is what I am working towards. Every other election
campaign along the way contributes to that campaign.

That's where I'm heading," he says.

As for this Thursday's European elections, Swinney sounds like a man who is
already buffing his excuses. "Part of the challenge is that the political
landscape is a lot more congested than it was in the old days. There are many
more parties fighting for support. The challenge for us is to see our way
through that."

The SNP's problem is that the number of MEPs from Scotland is being cut from
eight to six, as a result of last month's expansion of the European Union. Last
time the nationalists won two, and Swinney is under intense pressure to hold on
to both.

Only this time, as well as the squeeze on numbers, he has to contend with the
ambitions of the Scottish Socialists and the Greens, both of whom are looking
for their first Scottish Euro seat. There is also the wild card of the UK
Independence Party to consider.

The absence of polling evidence means the outcome is difficult to predict. Asked
why his party is not doing better, given an unpopular war, a struggling Blair
government and an uninspiring McConnell administration, Swinney's frustration
seeps to the surface and irritation shows in his voice.

"Well, you have no idea how we're doing, with the greatest of respect. You
haven't a scintilla of evidence. You haven't an opinion poll, you haven't a
canvas return.

So allow me to await the verdict of the electorate."

But listening to him detail his strategy it is easy to imagine Swinney on Friday
morning reprising the approach he tried after the SNP's poor showing last year.
At that time he insisted his campaign was the right one -it was just that the
voters didn't like it.

Despite recent attempts to project a more aggressive persona, some nationalists
still question whether Swinney has the charisma or personality to carry it off.

They believe he has always been temperamentally unsuited for leadership. Does he
feel he has the necessary steel?

"Frankly, yes. I look at different question time occasions where it's quite
clear that the line of attack I've taken has exposed real weakness in what the
first minister is saying. We've taken the government very close to defeats when
they should never have been in that position."

But is it a role he had to work hard to grow into? Was he naturally cut out for
it? There is a pause.

"Well it's the role I knew needed to be done. Whether I was naturally equipped
for it or not, I've done it."

That suggests he wasn't naturally equipped for it, does it not? Swinney recovers
his poise before answering: "I think I was perfectly equipped for it. I wouldn't
have stood for the leadership of the SNP otherwise. And I've deployed and
demonstrated the skills needed to do that job in the intervening four years."

He refuses to accept the widespread belief that independence has fallen off the
political agenda in Scotland. He argues it underpins the major themes of the
SNP's European campaign -for example a distinctive Scottish position on the Iraq
war and an approach to the European constitution that protects Scottish fishing
interests.

But he accepts there is a contrary argument that the SNP's task is made more
difficult in a time of war, terror, fear and global uncertainty. Hardly the best
climate for encouraging people to opt for independence.

Swinney also accepts that Scots' belief in their ability to govern themselves
has taken a heavy knock in recent years. The reason? "The Holyrood building saga
has been perhaps the most visible symbol of Scottish self-government in the last
seven years. The building has undoubtedly undermined the confidence and
credibility of arguments about self-government, and just the general mood. And
that was undoubtedly a major factor for us last May, that people were scunnered
by the building."

Did he now regret making short-term political capital out of the building
project, knowing what harm the controversies had wreaked on the nationalists'
long-term ambitions?

"These things are unavoidable," he says. "The Fraser inquiry will expose the
kind of incompetence and deceit we have been finding for years within Scotland
and this closed establishment culture that devolution has begun to open up a
bit."

Swinney hopes the Holyrood effect will soon begin to ease. "Hopefully we can now
begin to focus debate on what the building was for, rather than what it cost,"
he says. Too late, of course, to help him this Thursday. Another convenient
excuse, though, if new questions about his leadership are raised by the cold,
hard reality in the tallies of votes.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Interview; John Swinney

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              306 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

POSTAL VOTE WILL HIT THE UKIP BUT BOOST LABOUR

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words


POSTAL voting will save Tony Blair's bacon and limit the success of the UK
Independence Party in Thursday's European elections, according to an exclusive
poll for the Sunday Express.

Labour's decision to make four regions vote by post could boost the Government's
vote by up to seven per cent, squeeze fringe parties like UKIP and wipe out the
BNP.

The poll found postal ballots will boost turnout by up to 30 per cent in some
areas, a finding that will encourage the Government to push for postal voting in
the next election. In the North East region, UKIP can expect 13 per cent of the
vote, compared with 17 per cent it might have got if traditional polling
stations were used - costing it a seat it might otherwise have won in the
European Parliament.

UKIP candidate and Sunday Express columnist Robert Kilroy-Silk, fighting for the
East Midlands Euro seat, will also be hit by postal voting but his popularity is
expected to pull him through. The Government may still get mauled in local
council elections that day but postal voting could halt a Tory advance in the
Brussels parliament.

Our poll by Political Advanced Analysis Network (PAAN), used a "black box" that
takes more account of local circumstances and the people who are likely to vote
than traditional opinion polls. It successfully predicted the outcome of Welsh
Assembly elections last year, which are run on a similar proportional
representation system.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              307 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

POSTAL VOTING TO DELIVER HUGE GAINS FOR LABOUR

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 231 words


POSTAL voting is set to save Tony Blair's bacon in this Thursday's European
elections.

The system will also limit the UK Independence Party's success, according to an
exclusive poll for the Sunday Express.

The Government's decision to force four regions to vote exclusively by post will
boost Labour's poll numbers by up to seven per cent, but will squeeze fringe
parties like the UKIP and wipe out the racist BNP.

The UKIP are set to lose out in the North East of England on aseat they would
have expected to win with conventional voting.

Postal ballots will boost turnout by up to 30 per cent according to the poll,
which was carried out by the Political Advanced Analysis Network (PAAN) using a
system that predicted the outcome of the Welsh Assembly elections last year.

PAAN managing director Steve Morgan said: "Support for minor parties is less
dependent onturnout than it is for the main parties. People who vote for a small
party tend to have specific reasons for their inclinations and are less likely
to miss the opportunity to register support.

"As turnout increases, their vote share falls. PAAN predicts that exclusive
postal voting in the North East of England will ensure that Labour take two of
the three seats and that the UKIP are excluded.

"The main party to benefit is Labour, but all main parties gain an advantage
with postal votes."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              308 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

POST VOTE WILL HIT UK IP BUT BOOST LABOUR

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words


POSTAL voting will save Tony Blair's bacon and limit the success of the UK
Independence Party in Thursday's European elections, according to an exclusive
poll for the Sunday Express.

Labour's decision to force four regions to vote exclusively by post is set to
boost the Government's vote by up to seven per cent, squeeze fringe parties like
UKIP and wipe out the racist BNP.

The poll found postal ballots will boost turnout by up to 30 per cent in some
areas, a finding that will encourage the Government to push for postal voting in
the next general election.

In the North East region, UKIP can expect just 13 per cent of the vote, compared
with 17 per cent they might have got if traditional polling stations were used -
costing them a seat they might otherwise have won in the European Parliament.

UKIP candidate and Sunday Express columnist Robert Kilroy-Silk, fighting for the
East Midlands Euro seat, will also be hit by postal voting, but his personal
popularity is expected to see him pull through. UKIP candidates in areas not
using postal voting could also do well.

The Government may still get mauled in local council elections the same day, but
postal voting could halt a Tory advance in the Brussels parliament.

Our poll by Political Advanced Analysis Network (PAAN), used a computer "black
box" that takes far more account of local circumstances and the people who are
actually likely to vote than traditional opinion polls.

The system successfully predicted the outcome of the Welsh Assembly elections
last year, which are run on a similar proportional representation system to the
European Parliament.

Steve Morgan, managing director of PAAN, said: "Celebrities are always a factor
and someone with the personal popularity of Robert Kilroy-Silk will always
attract a big personal vote.

PAAN predicts that exclusive postal voting in the north-east will ensure that
Labour take two of the three seats and that UKIP are excluded. Turnouts will
rise by as much as 30 per cent. The main party to benefit is the Labour Party
but all main parties gain with postal votes."

The survey predicted that in a traditional vote only 21 per cent in the
north-east would bother going to polling stations to cast their vote - with 34
per cent of them voting Labour, 29 per cent Tory and 17 per cent UKIP.

Under the proportional representation rules Labour and the Tories would get one
seat each with the third a toss-up between UKIP and Labour.

PAAN predicts that the postal vote will see turnout double to 42 per cent - with
Labour taking 41 per cent and UKIP's share falling to 13 per cent, giving Labour
two seats and the Tories one.

Mr Morgan said backers of minor parties such as Socialist Labour or BNP were
less likely to miss the chance of voting than most people, therefore the higher
the overall turnout, the smaller their share of the total vote would be.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              309 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

LEADER; HOWARD'S TAUNTS ARE THE MARK OF A DESPERATE MAN

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 568 words


MICHAEL HOWARD has lost the plot. The Tory leader is in a blind panic. It seems
he will resort to almost any strategy to prevent the Conservative vote crumbling
in the elections on Thursday, and his leadership is consequently being
discredited.

What else can explain his extra-ordinary attack on UKIP as an extremist party
that represents a wasted vote, and his over-eager and badly advised support for
the fuel protesters? The patronising arrogance of the old political parties in
Westminster was once again demonstrated by his churlish response to UKIP's surge
in the polls.

It shows you just how out of touch they are, doesn't it? He still obviously does
not realise that cat-calling and ya-boo politics is precisely what has led to
hundreds of thousands of people being disenchanted with politics in Britain.

He scored a spectacular own goal and he has embarrassed and discomfited
thousands of decent people. Poor John Redwood, dispatched to do the Tory Party's
dirty work on every possible media outlet, was forced on Newsnight by a
tenacious Gavin Esler to acknowledge I was no "extremist", and effectively had
to disassociate himself from his leader.

To label as "extremists" all decent, hardworking British people who want to
govern themselves and to be in control of their own laws, their own foreign and
defence policy, their own tax and interest rates and economic policy, means
(given more than 52 per cent of the electorate supports this position) that we
are all "extremists" now. And proud to be so.

But smearing decent British people - many of whom were and still are, Tory
supporters, as well as Labour voters - was not enough for one day. He also threw
a little tantrum and stomped his polished feet, saying that a vote to withdraw
from the EU was a "wasted" vote.

How patronising. How condescending. What a terrible thing for a party leader to
say about the British people voting with conviction on the most important
political issue of our generation. They're wasting their votes? I don't think
so. Apart from anything else, a big vote for UKIP on June 10 will stop Tony
Blair signing up on June 17 to the EU constitution, establishing a federal state
- and will, incidentally, make both the old parties address the issue of
withdrawal more honestly. They cannot ignore the clearly expressed views of the
people, can they?

If they could get away with it they would. Michael Howard's remark demonstrates
that like all the metropolitan political elite, he thinks our votes belong to
him; that they must be cast in the same old way for the same old tired parties
as they have always been.

DID YOU realise that we give away a net GBP 30billion a year to the EU? No, I
bet you didn't. It has been kept very quiet. But we do!

Indeed, as figures to be released today will show, this figure is an
underestimate.

Yet neither you nor I were asked if we were happy to subsidise the remote and
corrupt bureaucracy in Brussels to the tune of GBP 30billion a year. No wonder
neither Tony Blair nor any member of his Cabinet wants to talk about it.

But this is an important issue. GBP 30billion a year could provide 10,000
hospital beds, 68,000 police officers, 56,000 senior teachers, 125,000 trainee
nurses - and increase pensions by GBP 34 a week.

And we could do this every year.

Where do you want your money to be spent - in Brussels or in Britain?

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              310 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

LEADER IT'S VITAL THAT BRITAIN SHAPES EUROPE FROM WITHIN. . .; EU WOULD STILL
RULE US EVEN IF WE DID QUIT

BYLINE: By Julia HartleyBrewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 873 words


THERE was a time when people who wanted Britain to pull out of the European
Union were treated as eccentrics. They were to be pitied rather than despised
for expressing such bizarre views.

The past year, though, has seen a seismic shift. No longer is talk of the United
Kingdom existing outside the EU seen as the burblings of madmen.

Those strange folk inhabiting the distant outposts of our political landscape
have now moved to take the centre ground as, with days to go before the European
elections, the UK Independence Party's cause has become one of the crucial
issues of polling day.

But their dream of letting go the ropes and allowing Britain to drift away from
our continental oppressors would not free us from Brussels.

Civitas, the Left-wing think tank, today claims that, if the UK were to leave
the EU, there would be no net loss of jobs or trade and we'd be GBP 20billion a
year better off.

That may be true but any decision to hand back our EU membership card would
leave us even more under the thumb of Euro-Commissioners and their regulations,
directives and court rulings.

If the problem is that Brussels has too much say over the running of Britain,
then the solution being offered by UKIP will only make matters worse.

If Britain were to walk away from the Union, no one envisages that we would
exist in splendid isolation.

We'd still have to trade with our continental neighbours and - as a result - we
would still have to pay into the Brussels coffers and enact the same regulations
and laws.

Yet, without a seat at the table of the Council of Ministers, and no
EuroCommissioner or MEPs, we'd have absolutely no say over how those laws are
made. We would be worse off, not better off.

We would become, in effect, a "fax democracy".

That, after all, has been Norway's fate. The Norwegians have chosen to remain
outside the EU, preferring instead to stay as a member of the European Economic
Area, which operates a free trading deal with Union members.

Those who want Britain to follow in Norway's footsteps would be wise to look
before they leap. Norway - supposedly free from Brussels' red tape - is only
able to trade freely with EU member states, without tariffs and customs, because
it operates the very same trading laws.

The laws of the single market still apply and, while the Norwegians have to
comply with the majority of EU laws, they have no say in how those laws are
made.

So, while millions of Norwegians may vote in elections to choose their own
government, most of their laws are faxed to them from Brussels.

Indeed, in a Brussels league table of the countries that implement the most EU
regulations, Norway came top!

And, added to that humiliation, Norway is also required to make a contribution
to EU coffers - 220million euros (GBP 146million) a year between 2004-09. That
is more per head of population than some member states pay in. Indeed, both
Norway and Switzerland - despite being outside the EU - are net contributors to
Union coffers.

Of course, Britain would be in a much stronger position to negotiate a good
trade deal with the EU. The UK is the largest single market for exports from
both France and Germany. But just as France, Germany and many other EU countries
rely on trade and business with the UK, British companies rely on the European
market to sell their goods and services.

There is no place for Little Englanders in the modern world. They might argue
that there would be an immediate dividend for Britain in terms of the annual
membership costs of the EU. Yet if Britain wanted to continue to benefit from
free trade we'd still be required (just like Norway, Switzerland and others) to
pay for the costs of administering the single market by contributing to the EU
budget.

Britain's union with the rest of Europe has never been an easy one. Like many an
unhappy marriage, the answer does not lie in separation and divorce but in
working together to change the relationship.

Without our influence holding back the Franco-German drive towards greater
economic and political integration, the EU will flounder inevitably into the
federalist abyss, putting a stranglehold on the market freedoms that the
continent needs to prosper in the 21st century.

There is no doubt that the EU leaves a lot to be desired for many British
voters.

However, the solution is not walking out but staying in and remoulding the EU
into a creation in our own image.

WE ARE already doing that.

It was Britain that pushed for the expansion of the Union eastwards, in a bid to
derail French and German attempts to force through deeper integration. Outside
the EU, we will be powerless to stop the federal creep.

Outside the EU, reforming the policies on farming and fisheries would be for
ever beyond our control. Outside the EU, we would be unable to tackle the
corruption, fraud and incompetence rife in EU institutions - the same
institutions that would continue to decide our national laws.

Britain's political landscape may have changed but, until the tectonic plates
shift our tiny nation many hundreds of miles away from continental Europe, we'd
be better off remaining at the other end of the fax machine.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              311 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

HOWARD'S TAUNTS ARE THE MARK OF A DESPERATE MAN

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 609 words


MICHAEL HOWARD has lost the plot. The Tory leader is in a blind panic.

It seems that he will resort to almost any strategy to prevent the Conservative
vote crumbling in the elections on Thursday, and his leadership is consequently
being discredited.

What else can explain his extraordinary attack on UKIP as an extremist party
that represents a wasted vote, and his overeager and badly advised support for
the fuel protesters? The patronising arrogance of the old political parties in
Westminster was once again demonstrated by his churlish response to UKIP's surge
in the polls.

Instead of realising that the Tories had a serious political problem and dealing
w ith the issue - asking himself why so many of his erstwhile supporters are
attracted by the idea of a civilised w ithdrawal from Europe so that we can
govern ourselves - he resorts to childish name-calling and smears.

It shows you just how out of touch they are, doesn't it? He still obviously does
not realise that cat-calling and ya-boo politics is precisely what has led to
hundreds of thousands of people being disenchanted with politics in Britain.

He scored a spectacular own goal and he has embarrassed and discomfited
thousands of decent people. Poor John Redwood, dispatched to do the Tory Party's
dirty work on every possible media outlet, was forced on Newsnight by a
tenacious Gavin Esler to acknowledge I was no "extremist", and effectively had
to disassociate himself from his leader's intemperate remarks.

To label as "extremists" all decent, hard-working British people who want to
govern themselves and to be in control of their own laws, their own foreign and
defence policy, their own tax and interest rates and economic policy, means
(given more than 52 per cent of the electorate supports this position) that we
are all "extremists" now. And proud to be so.

Michael Howard has seemingly joined the ranks of the fascist Left who think that
they can destroy people by attaching a label to them. Well, he has got this one
v ery badly wrong. This big mistake will haunt his political life.

But smearing decent British people - many of whom were and still are, Tory
supporters, as well as Labour voters - w as not enough for one day. He also
threw a little tantrum and stomped his polished feet, saying that a vote to
withdraw from the EU was a "wasted" vote.

How patronising. How condescending.

What a terrible thing for a party leader to say about the British people voting
with conviction on the most important political issue of our generation. They're
wasting their votes? I don't think so. Apart from anything else, a big vote for
UKIP on June 10 will stop Tony Blair signing up on June 17 to the EU
constitution, establishing a federal state - and will, incidentally, make both
the old parties address the issue of withdrawal more honestly. They cannot
ignore the clearly expressed views of the people, can they?

IF THEY could get away with it they would. Michael Howard's remark demonstrates
that like all the metropolitan political elite, he thinks our votes belong to
him;

that they must be cast in the same old way for the same old tired parties as
they have always been.

He becomes stroppy and hysterical if there is any suggestion that the electors
might show that they have a mind of their own, act independently and vote for an
independent country.

Maybe the sensible Michael Ancram should take his leader to one side and tell
him that he's got it all wrong - that it's the people who tell the politicians
what to do - not the politicians who tell the people what they must think, and
how they should vote.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              312 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

TORY LEADER REFUSES TO DANCE TO NEWCOMERS' EURO TUNE; HOWARD SCORNS UK IP

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 558 words


TORY leader Michael Howard has vowed he will not change his policy on Europe
even if the UK Independence Party wins more MEPs in Thursday's elections.

Critics claim his failure to deliver a eurosceptic message has allowed the
fledgling UKIP to gain a foothold in Conservative heartlands.

But yesterday Mr Howard vowed: "I'm not going to change my policy because my
policy is right for the country. The only thing Tony Blair's worried about is
Conservative Party votes. A vote for any party other than the Conservatives
would make his day."

The former Conservative Home Secretary added: "There isn't a great deal of
evidence of support for UKIP on the ground. That may be deceptive.

There is also no real evidence that their support is coming disproportionately
from us as opposed to the other parties."

And he told voters thinking of backing UKIP: "I think it would be a mistake for
people to vote for UKIP. The choice isn't between handing more power to Brussels
on the one hand and giving up on Europe on the other.

There is an alternative and it is to do what Margaret Thatcher did when she won
back the rebate.

"There is another way. That applies to the new constitution and it applies to
our intention to bring back power from Brussels. That's not to say that there
isn't a case for a union of nation states.

"Those that say I am a lone voice are wrong. The Dutch Foreign Minister made a
speech only the other day saying Europe should give up powers back to national
parliaments."

In a bid to dampen expectations, Mr Howard has refused to say how many seats he
is hoping the Tories win in either the European or local elections.

But he has set himself the "very ambitious target" of hanging on to 35 Euro
seats - the number the Tories currently hold - although the number of British
MEP seats is being cut from 87 to 78.

And in the local council elections Mr Howard faces what he called a "very high
hurdle" of defending the party's gains in 2000 under William Hague's leadership,
when they got 35 per cent of the vote.

"So we have got to get a significant increase on last year just to stand still,
" he said.

And if he does not win those extra votes? Sanguine Mr Howard replies:

"We'll think about that on Monday morning."

Mr Howard took time off from campaigning at the weekend to attend the D-Day
commemorations in Normandy. And he said: "It's desperately important we remember
what happened. It is very, very moving to think so many people embarked on such
a heroic and difficult exercise.

"People look back and sometimes think it was inevitable we would fight on in
1940 and that we'd win the war.

None of those things was inevitable.

"If it hadn't been for Churchill's supreme political will and leadership, the
whole history of the world would have been very, very different. And the world
we live in today would be very, different.

"So many of them gave their lives so that we could live to be free and one does
ask the question: would we be up to it? Would my generation be up to it?

Would the younger generation be up to it? I don't know that we would."

The nation's political leadership was also open to question. "I don't think
there's a Churchill around at the moment, " he said. "He was a very exceptional
figure indeed. And you don't get many Churchills."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              313 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

WILL UK IP FORCE HOWARD TO BE STRONG ON EUROPE?

BYLINE: JIMMY YOUNG

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 519 words


LAST Sunday, I drew the attention of the Conservative leader Michael Howard to
the fact that sentiment right across northern and central Europe is turning
against the despotic ambitions of the European Union. I also pointed out that
his mild criticisms of the EU were ineffective and suggested he should sharpen
up his act.

Two days later, on Tuesday, he responded with a tough speech.

Unfortunately, it wasn't anything like tough enough.

Hoping to stem the flow of Tory v otes to the UK Independence Party, with its
policy of saying no to Europe, he described the UKIP as extremists who want to
pull out of the EU altogether.

He then warned that Labour and the Liberal Democrats stand at the other extreme,
wanting to surrender even more power to Brussels, and set Europe on the path to
a single European state.

Michael's problem is that, although he sees the need to highlight his
Eurosceptic credentials, he doesn't want to upset Conservative Euro enthusiasts
such as Ken Clarke.

He underestimates himself.

Thanks to his success in uniting the party since he became leader there aren't
many Clarke-type Europhiles left in the Tory party.

European politics are polarising rapidly and the vast majority of the British
people, worried about the ever-increasing arrogance and power of the EU and its
interference in our affairs, are to v arying degrees Eurosceptics.

They know perfectly well where the EU is heading and they don't like it. If they
were in any doubt the German Foreign Minister, Joschka Fischer, reminded them
last w eek. Speaking of the European constitution, he said: "Creating a single
European state bound by one constitution is the decisive task of our time."

The message couldn't be clearer, Michael, and you can't duck it.

Mainland Europe doesn't want Britain simply as a friendly trading partner. It
wants us bound into closer political union in a single European state: a country
called Europe.

Most Brits don't want to belong to a country called Europe and I believe you
when you say that you don't, either. You say you want to remain in the European
Union but change its course and direction.

BUT what if you can't get the flexible Europe you want, with some countries
integrating more closely than others on certain issues? If the other members of
the European club say you must either abide by our club rules or leave the club,
what will you do? Because, faced with the EU resolutely set on closer
integration, that is the question which, ultimately, whoever leads Britain has
to answer.

The UKIP's policy is clear. It demands a complete renegotiation of Britain's
relations with the European Union, and if its demand is refused, it is prepared
to pull out of the EU altogether. Tough talk, and I wouldn't be surprised if
many voters, worried by the direction the EU is taking, vote UKIP next Thursday
as a protest, and as a warning to other political parties.

Even if that happens, Labour and the Liberal Democrats won't change their
fervently proEuropean stance; but it will be very interesting to see how the
Conservatives react.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              314 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

WILLIAM HICKEY; WILLIAM HICKEY

BYLINE: WILLIAM HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 75 words


HAVING done her bit for UK Independence Party politics, Joan Collins is now
fixing her sights firmly on the West End stage. The glamorous 71-year-old
actress, who has been touring B ritain with her play Full Circle, is reported to
have been shunning L ondon theatres for fear of a panning by critics.

"That's absolute rubbish, " the ex-Dynasty star told Hickey. "In fact we are
currently in talks about bringing the play to the West End."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              315 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

PRIZE LETTER OF THE WEEK; 'INCONSISTENCIES' IN KILROY CLAIMS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 73

LENGTH: 195 words


HAVING given Robert Kilroy-Silk column space last week to promote his European
election candidacy, I hope you will allow one of his opponents to point out some
inconsistencies in what he says.

The UK Independence Party claims to be concerned about independence from
Brussels, but it would willingly take orders from America and the World Trade
Organisation.

According to its own website, one reason for leaving the European Union is
because of "ongoing EU trade disputes with America, and Brussels' reluctance to
accept WTO rulings that don't go in its favour". One of these trade disputes is
the attempt by America, through the WTO, to force genetically modified food on
European consumers.

UKIP dangles the possibility of signing up to the North American Free Trade
Agreement.

It doesn't mention that NAFTA would allow American firms to sue us for loss of
profits if the UK passed laws that discriminated against them.

If people want to express opposition to the single currency and concern about
the proposed European constitution they can do so by voting Green.

Brian Fewster, Green Party European election candidate for the East Midlands

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              316 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

EXPRESS DEBATE; SHOULD WE BACK THE UKIP ON EUROPE?

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 73

LENGTH: 97 words


YES

HEAR, hear to the rebel Tory MPs who urged voters to support UKIP over Europe
and not the Conservatives.

Mr Howard has sold out on Europe and, by refusing to say an outright "no", he is
selling us into the United States of Europe.

Miles Staton, Bury St Edmonds, Suffolk

NO

AT this time of voter apathy, it is crucial that Euro-sceptics band together and
vote for the Conservative's line on Europe. Let's not split our vote over
one-policy parties without the history or experience to fight off this European
menace.

T Reynolds, Wilmslow, Cheshire

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              317 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 6, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; UKIP CHARM OFFENSIVE CAN NEVER BLIND US TO THE REALITY

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 457 words


THE RISE of the UK Independence Party, with our columnist Robert Kilroy-Silk as
its charismatic figurehead, is remarkable but not entirely surprising.

The British people are bursting to have their say on Europe.

Tony Blair's decision to stage a referendum was as welcome as it was politically
puzzling but no one wants to wait until after the general election. For 30
years, ever since Ted Heath took us into the Common Market, Britain has been
denied a vote on whether we approved of the direction in which our leaders were
taking us.

Now the people's pent-up frustrations are ready to blow.

UKIP has decided that the elections on June 10 will be its battleground and the
generals have marshalled their forces so well that some polls are suggesting the
Liberal Democrats could be forced into fourth place.

Last week Michael Howard rubbished the anti-EU party, which suggests that he,
too, is rattled at the support they have already drummed up. He castigated
UKIP's three MEPs for their voting record on issues vital to Britain and claimed
that the party was extremist.

But, significantly, the tone of his speech was largely Euro-sceptical.

This newspaper has already nailed its colours to the Tory mast. We believe
Michael Howard's stance on Europe, like his policies in other key areas, is
sound and worth supporting. The truth is that there is no intellectual, economic
or common sense case for pulling out of Europe.

That doesn't mean we want to be part of a federal Europe. We don't. Or that we
want to join the euro zone - we don't. Those are both key elements in the French
and German strategy. They want to be political masters of all they survey in a
Europe hog-tied by bureaucracy, 35-hour weeks, barking mad directives and
political correctness.

But that is no reason to pull out. We're not quitters, after all. Much better to
stay in the EU and to shape it according to our vision, not that of Chirac and
Schroder. It's not as if we are on our own. Other member countries are beginning
to have serious doubts too.

Michael Howard knows this (to be fair, so does Tony Blair). But both Tories and
Labour are deeply divided on Europe. So instead of speaking out boldly the party
leaders adopt the language of diplomacy. And that allows a minority party
spearheaded by a glamorous, persuasive, experienced politician and TV
personality to assume an importance beyond its size.

A wise old head in the Tory Party, Ken Clarke, was heard to ask over lunch last
week what, if UKIP performs well at the polls, should the major parties be
planning to do about it?

The answer, surely, is to embrace Europe, then seduce it and elope with it to
the land of common sense.

Then UKIP won't matter.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              318 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 06, 2004, Sunday

UKIP is just a stunt: 'I'm a Celebrity . . . Get Me Out of Europe' Howard is
right to resist the bait to snarl more angrily at Brussels

BYLINE: by Matthew d'Ancona

SECTION: Features; Comment:Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1314 words

There was a moment last week when it seemed that Michael Howard's
crisply-laundered shirt might rip open at the seams, his face contort with
righteous fury, and his hair recede even further as he turned into that
primordial Tory creature - the "Incredible Hague". Asked what he thought about
the prospective fuel protests, the normally urbane, unflappable barrister Howard
was visibly struggling with the temptation to bellow something spectacularly,
satisfyingly demotic.

In the end, he settled for a nod and a wink to those planning demonstrations: "I
can understand that people might be very angry indeed if the Government were to
proceed with the increase in fuel duty at this time." This was not quite on a
par with William Hague's notorious remark in 2000 that those leading the petrol
mutiny were "fine, upstanding citizens". But one knew full well what was going
through Mr Howard's mind.

It would have been a grievous mistake for the Tory leader to go further. Mr
Hague's support for the fuel protesters, along with his supportive remarks about
Tony Martin, were the beginning of the end for him. In both cases, he was
surfing powerfully-felt waves of public opinion, and, in the case of the petrol
mutiny, he was rewarded by a temporary lead in the polls. Much good it did him
in the long term. When Tony Blair started sneering at "Bandwagon Billy" across
the despatch box, Mr Hague and his aides shrugged off the insult. Within two
months, to their dismay, the Conservatives' private polling showed that the
insult had seeped into the popular consciousness. Mr Hague was, and is, one of
the most able politicians of his generation. But the moment he hopped on to the
bandwagon he surrendered the dignity of the prospective Prime Minister.

Thus far, in spite of a few instances of hideous temptation, Mr Howard has not
performed a similar act of surrender. Indeed, in a speech on Europe last
Tuesday, the Tory leader showed that he grasps the fundamental importance of not
doing so. Mysteriously, the speech was widely reported as a lurch to the
Europhobic Right, when it was no such thing. In practice, the address built upon
the new tone of poised nonchalance towards the EU - "live and let live" - first
unveiled in Mr Howard's Berlin speech in February. "We do not want to stop
countries within the EU integrating more closely if that is what they want to
do," he said last week, "as long as they do not try to force us to do what we do
not want to do."

The true departure in this speech was Mr Howard's overt use of the technique
known as "triangulation", whereby a politician seeks to define his position as
innately reasonable by contrasting it with two extremes. In this case, the Tory
leader portrayed himself as the voice of sanity between, on the one hand, Labour
and the Lib Dems, who support further EU integration, and, on the other, the UK
Independence Party, which advocates withdrawal from Europe. This was smart
politics, whatever Mr Howard's critics say to the contrary.

Oddly enough, one of the observers most likely to appreciate this is Dick
Morris, Bill Clinton's former strategist, who masterminded the modern art of
"triangulation". In a bizarre development, Mr Morris, a political gun for hire
if ever there was one, has been advising the UKIP on its campaign for next
Thursday's European elections. What Mr Howard's foes would love is for him to
take the UKIP bait, snarl more angrily about Brussels, and restore the
impression which so hampered the Conservatives at the 2001 general election that
the party is little more than a single issue group. It is much to his credit
that he has not done so.

Without question, the UKIP is an embarrassment to the Tories. Jonathan Aitken's
announcement on Friday that he is now supporting the anti-EU party was a
calculated kick in the teeth to the Tory leader: Mr Aitken - the man who put the
"con" in "Conservative" - made his Westminster home available to Mr Howard for
his 1997 leadership campaign, but was rebuffed by his old friend in February
when Mr Howard blocked Mr Aitken's bid to revive his parliamentary career.

It is sad to see the man who once ran the Conservative Philosophy Group with
grace and aplomb throw in his lot with the UKIP. But it is not wholly surprising
that yet another Tory exile should have joined a party which is essentially a
salon des refuses. The UKIP is merely the latest mutation of a persistent strain
in Right-wing politics which has taken many forms since the fall of Margaret
Thatcher in 1990, but has as its binding force the belief that the Conservative
Party betrayed true Euro-scepticism when it ditched her, that the Maastricht
Treaty was treasonable and that New Labour's infatuation with the EU has made
withdrawal the only patriotic course.

Sir James Goldsmith's Referendum Party was the first serious manifestation of
this tendency, and certainly the one with the most panache. A veritable alphabet
soup of lesser anti-EU groups have emerged and withered over the years,
reminiscent of the People's Front of Judea and the Judean People's Front in
Monty Python's Life of Brian - not least because the only people they hated more
than European federalists were each other.

The UKIP, however, has enjoyed a remarkable surge in the past few months which
far exceeds the past significance of these ephemeral groupuscules. My own hunch
is that this surge has as much to do with the spread of rather detestable views
on asylum seekers and immigration as it does with the politics of the EU. But
the other determining factor has been the opportunities presented by new voting
systems, especially in European elections, which favour small parties and single
issue groups. It is no longer possible for the Tories to argue that a vote for
the UKIP is a wasted vote: the party already has three MEPs, after all.

Indeed, it is the consequent ability of such parties to make smash'n'grab raids
upon the democratic system with relatively little effort that has made the UKIP
a magnet for such a motley crew of "public figures" such as Robert Kilroy-Silk,
Joan Collins, Geoff Boycott and Max Clifford. With each of these drab
endorsements, the UKIP has looked less and less like a political movement and
more like a nightmarish reality TV show: I'm a Celebrity . . . Get Me Out of
Europe!

It is all so cheesy, this coalition of self-publicists, sacked chatshow hosts,
1970s soft porn-stars and angry cricketers. They will doubtless have their day
on Thursday, may well make electoral gains, and will certainly claim that the
UKIP is now a serious political force. That claim will be utter, unmitigated,
fully-fledged nonsense. Who now takes seriously the Green Party, which gained
14.9 per cent of the vote in the 1989 European elections?

The truth is that the electorate is sophisticated, and sees Thursday's polls as
an opportunity to give Mr Blair and - in some areas - Mr Howard a kicking. The
voters regard local government as more or less powerless, and the European
Parliament as irrelevant: if these elections have any meaning, therefore, it
will be as a protest vote, a collective act in mischief-making and a means of
sticking two fingers up at the political establishment.

But quite different rules will apply when the general election comes around.
That is a serious matter, and the most that the UKIP will be able to achieve in
that context will be to ruin the chances of some Conservative candidates in
marginal seats and help (in most cases) the Lib Dems. And where's the sense in
that if you are opposed to further European integration? For all its apparent
vigour, the UKIP represents those on the Right who have chosen to fall asleep,
taking a snooze while the modern world passes them by. But that's no way to
change policy, to achieve power, to vanquish your opponents. To adapt the words
of the Iron Lady: UKIP if you want to.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              319 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 06, 2004, Sunday

Alan Sked is the Ted Heath of UKIP

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor:Pg. 24

LENGTH: 236 words

I was the Referendum Party candidate who stood against Dr Alan Sked in the 1997
general election that caused him to give up on the UK Independence Party and
return to the Conservatives (Comment, May 30). What was obvious then is that,
while he is is a man of great intellect, he lacks any strong grasp of practical
political reality. He was sure that the UKIP was going to win seats, and
watching the results come in was to witness his spirit being broken.

Dr Sked joined the Tories declaring that he no longer believed a new party could
get anywhere in British politics - something UKIP is now doing, which must be
galling for him.

Now, to his shame, Dr Sked is getting involved in what has to be the saddest
part of this election campaign and that is the "pact" between the BNP and the
established Lib-Lab-Con parties (and you should probably include the BBC in this
too). It suits the mainstream parties to pretend that, in Britain, the only
people that oppose the EU are BNP-type fascists, and it suits the BNP fascists
to pretend that the only thing standing between Britain and total EU takeover
are Right-wing "patriots" such as themselves. Except that it isn't like that.
The UKIP gets in the way of both pretences. Claiming we are mad or "gadflies"
isn't much better either. It all has the feel of people who know that they don't
have logical argument on their side.

Michael Wigley

Southampton

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              320 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 06, 2004, Sunday

Alan Sked is the Ted Heath of UKIP

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor:Pg. 24

LENGTH: 62 words

It may well be that Alan Sked will qualify for the record of the longest
political sulk in history when the present incumbent, Sir Edward Heath, vacates
the title.

I suspect that he may well have held on to the position of leader of the UKIP if
he had achieved the high level of media exposure the current leadership has
brought about.

John Moran

East Molesey, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              321 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 06, 2004, Sunday

Alan Sked is the Ted Heath of UKIP

SECTION: Features; Comment:Pg. 24

LENGTH: 122 words

Alan Sked's article requires some corrections. The UKIP was founded in September
1993, not by Alan Sked alone but by a committee of six, five of whom are still
active in the party. Party membership is 21,248, which is rather more than the
active base of 1,200 which Dr Sked suggests.

The average UKIP voting figures in local elections have been around 8 per cent,
not the 2 per cent he claims. UKIP is not a one-issue party, but has produced a
full manifesto of domestic policies. He is at least correct when he admits that
the Conservatives do not advocate independence from the EU. UKIP in contrast
believes that the best people to govern Britain are the British.

John Harvey (One UKIP founder)

Rodmell, East Sussex

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              322 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

UKIP SET FOR EURO POLL BOOST

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 122 words


LABOUR and Conservative party chiefs fear the UK Independence Party could win up
to 10 Euro seats next week at their expense.

Internal polling by the main parties has seen a major surge of support for UKIP,
according to details leaked to the Sunday Mirror ahead of Thursday's vote for 78
MEPs.

UKIP - which wants Britain to quit the European Union - won three seats at the
last elections in 1999. But a Labour minister said last night: "They are picking
up protest votes."

A senior Tory source admitted: "We are haemorrhaging votes to UKIP because of
their hardline stance on Europe.

"It is quite possible that they will double or treble the number of seats they
hold which would be an unmitigated disaster."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              323 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 05, 2004, Saturday

Aitken joins the Tory defectors to UKIP

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 245 words

JONATHAN Aitken, the disgraced former cabinet minister, yesterday became the
latest Conservative to defect to the United Kingdom Independence Party.

The former Thanet South MP said he was "impressed" by UKIP because it was the
only party adopting the right approach to Europe.

He said he would vote UKIP in next week's European elections, despite the fact
that three months ago he applied unsuccessfully to be selected as a Conservative
candidate for Parliament.

UKIP welcomed his convergence, even though Mr Aitken became synonymous with
"Tory sleaze" after he was jailed for perjury.

A UKIP spokesman, who did not know in advance about Mr Aitken's declaration,
said: "We are confident that thousands more Conservative Party members will
follow his example."

Roger Knapman, a former Tory whip, is UKIP's leader and several other former
Tory MPs have either joined the party or expressed their support.

UKIP is expected to gain a significant number of seats in next week's election
and much of its support is coming from Tories who agree with its policy of
withdrawal from the European Union.

However, Mr Aitken's support will reinforce suspicions that it has become a
magnet for failed and discredited politicians. Piers Merchant, UKIP's lead
candidate in the North East, is a former Tory who resigned from the Commons
after a sex scandal.

Yesterday, UKIP unveiled Geoffrey Boycott, the former England and Yorkshire
cricketer, as another new supporter.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              324 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 05, 2004, Saturday

Elgar looks on as Howard struggles for a rousing tune

BYLINE: by Tom Utley

SECTION: News; D-Day the legacy: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 758 words

OH GOD, he's going to bang on about this land of hope and glory, mother of the
free . . .

So I feared, anyway, when I received my orders to go to Sir Edward Elgar's
statue at the cathedral end of the High Street in Worcester, where Michael
Howard would be addressing the locals on the Euro-election campaign trail.

But I had misjudged the Conservative leader. Either nobody had told him (very
unlikely) that the bloke on the plinth was the composer of Pomp and Circumstance
March No 1, of last-night-of-the-Proms fame, or he felt that the words were too
hackneyed to utter, even for a politician on the stump.

Mr Howard didn't so much as mention Elgar. Mind you, his speech might have gone
down better if he had, and if he had thumped the patriotic tub a little harder.

Not that it went down badly. Most of the small crowd seemed to be stalwarts of
local Conservative associations - councillors, candidates, agents and activists.

There were plenty of those middle-aged, middle-class women who keep the wheels
of the party turning, licking envelopes and baking cakes for the fete. Many of
them had clearly had their hair done for their leader's half-hour visit.

Some of the men had also dressed up - smart-casual in blazers and ties. Mr
Howard's audience was a reminder that in many parts of the country, the
Conservative Party is almost as much a social as a political organisation.

Everyone seemed welcoming to the man from The Daily Telegraph, and full of
friendly banter. I like people like that.

They applauded politely enough - and particularly when Mr Howard said anything
that could be interpreted as being mildly Eurosceptic. But the truth is that he
did not give them all that much to get excited about.

On the Conservative approach to Europe, Mr Howard said Britain's overseas aid
ought to be distributed entirely from Westminster, and not from Brussels. Jolly
sensible, no doubt, but hardly stirring. I cannot imagine many people saying: "I
decided to vote Tory so that we could regain control of our overseas aid
budget."

If only he had been more disobliging about the Germans, the Belgians and
foreigners in general, I feel sure that he would have sent his listeners away
with a spring in their step and Land of Hope and Glory in their hearts.

What worries the Tories of Worcester and thereabouts is the surge in support for
the UK Independence Party.

They try to put a brave face on it. Prue Winton, the area chairman of the
Herefordshire and Shropshire Conservatives, told me: "It has done a good job for
the Conservatives. It has woken us up."

But I could not help feeling that most of Mr Howard's listeners would have liked
him to have sounded a little more like UKIP, and a little less like Michael
Heseltine.

My next assignment was to drive from Worcester through some of the loveliest
countryside in England to a UKIP meeting in Chippenham, Wilts. In the fields,
sheep and horses were posing in the sunshine, like extras in a Merchant-Ivory
film. I could see why Mrs Winton's husband, Roy (retired police officer, keen
golfer), had told me: "It's adorable here. This is the last bastion of old
England - and I'm proud to be old English."

Chippenham's Neeld Hall was packed with about 150 people for the UKIP meeting -
an astonishingly high turnout for a fringe party.

It was not as if the speakers - the historian Count Nikolai Tolstoy, Trevor
Colman, UKIP candidate, and Pam Bardon, editor of Save Our Sovereignty
newsletter - were household names. It was the cause that had drawn them.

Were they "cranks and political gadflies", as UKIP supporters have been
described by the Tories? I didn't think so. They seemed much the same as had
attended Mr Howard's meeting in Worcester, although perhaps a notch or two down
the income scale.

There was one chap with a Terry-Thomas moustache and Lord Lucan hair, who
perhaps looked a little eccentric. But everyone else seemed pretty normal - and
just as welcoming as the Tories had been.

All the speeches were punctuated with quotations from Churchill and Disraeli,
and all were greeted with enthusiastic applause. Nobody held back on the
patriotic tub-thumping. All that was missing was a rousing chorus of Land of
Hope and Glory.

But then UKIP's message is so much easier to understand than the Tories': get
out of Europe; to hell with the euro. It sure beats: "regain control of our
overseas aid budget".

My guess is that, in Worcestershire and Wiltshire at least, the main parties are
in for one hell of a shock when the results are declared on E-Day.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              325 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 05, 2004, Saturday

Boycott bats for UKIP

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 22

LENGTH: 130 words

The tide of celebrities coming out for the UK Independence Party in advance of
next week's European elections grows stronger with every day.

Former England cricketer Geoff Boycott joined their ranks yesterday in calling
for the country to withdraw from the European Union.

"I am not a political animal," said the ex-opening batsman, "but I am concerned
at the way governments of all colours have handed powers to Brussels without the
British people having a say in the matter.

"The sudden rise of UKIP has persuaded me that now is the time to stand up and
be counted," he continued. "This election is a real opportunity for people to
say to the Government that enough is enough."

Boycott joins well-known UKIP supporters Joan Collins, Sir Patrick Moore and
Edward Fox.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              326 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 05, 2004, Saturday

Folkestone Lib Dems add to Howard's woes

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 22

LENGTH: 172 words

An air of panic engulfed Conservative Central Office this week as support for
the UK Independence Party continued to surge. Michael Howard reacted by branding
the anti-EU party as "extremists".

Interestingly, Spy learns that the Tory leader is also becoming increasingly
concerned about the Liberal Democrats in his own seat of Folkestone and Hythe.
"Michael has just hired a new member of personal staff with the sole
responsibility of working on local campaigns against the Lib Dems," I'm told.

"It's a sign of just how worried he is about doing a Chris Patten."

Howard's majority dipped to below 6,000 at the last election, and Charles
Kennedy's strategy supremo, Lord Rennard, is already licking his lips.

"This shows that Michael Howard is in a panic, and with good cause," he says.

"At the last local elections in the constituency, we won 29 seats to the Tories'
16, while Labour only got one. I suspect that Labour supporters will not resist
the temptation to vote tactically in order to defeat the Tory leader."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              327 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 05, 2004, Saturday

I want to vote Tory next week, but they deserve a bad result

BYLINE: by Charles Moore

SECTION: Features Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1102 words

Like, I suspect, a good many people reading this article, I am hoping to vote
Conservative in the European elections next week. My reasons are fairly simple:
I don't like the Labour Government, I agree with the Tory opposition to the
European Constitution and the euro, I think Michael Howard is an able leader
and, besides, I am by nature a Tory. But Mr Howard's party is not making it very
easy for me.

At the European Parliament, the British Conservatives are in alliance with the
European People's Party. I have just read the EPP programme, drawn up this year.

The EPP believes in "developing the EU into a political Union". It wants a
"federal Europe" (albeit a "decentralised" one). It supports co-ordinated
taxation across the EU, and opposes national immigration policies. It calls for
the institution of a European public prosecutor, and for political oversight of
European policing by the European Parliament. It says that schools should teach
a "European civic spirit". All member states must join the euro, it says, and a
Common Foreign and Security Policy must be fully integrated into EU structures,
with the European Rapid Reaction Force as its "armed component". The EPP
supports the ratification of the European Constitution for "the good functioning
of the enlarged Europe".

I don't want any of these things. In fact, they are an almost comprehensive list
of the things I don't want. No blame attaches to the EPP for these policies:
they are the natural views of a party which has always supported ever deeper
European integration. It just seems strange that the Tory party should be
teaming up with this lot.

Ask more questions, and it gets stranger still. It turns out that the Tories had
the opportunity to lead a new political grouping at the European Parliament
which would have included parties from the new member states such as Poland, and
would have been Atlanticist and Euro-sceptic. This party would have been the
third largest in the parliament. But these negotiations were dropped, and
instead the Tories made a new agreement with the EPP. The idea is that the
Tories can sit and vote separately, but they get all the taxpayers' money which
the European Parliament doles out for staff, research etc, through the EPP. The
EPP skims a percentage off to campaign for europhile causes - things like a
"yes" vote in the Swedish euro referendum - and gives the rest to the Tories.

Some Tories think all this is very clever. Others think it is a necessary price
to pay for "the deal", a pact, they whisper, between Mr Howard and his old
Cambridge friend Kenneth Clarke to maintain peace between Right and Left in the
Tory party.

But for the voter, it produces a political party which makes Euro-sceptic
noises, but takes europhile money, says it opposes the Constitution and the
euro, but links up with one of their biggest promoters. When the UK Independence
Party comes along and says that the main parties are "deceitful", it is hard to
disagree.

And you can see the consequences in the Tory campaign, which is half-hearted and
confusing. The posters have that strange quality favoured by all advertising
agencies that the writing is too small to read; and when you do read it the most
prominent word visible is "Labour". The shoddy manifesto carries a photograph of
plucky British fishing boats which are, in fact (I gather from someone in the
industry), American. When I inquire about the 10 Tory candidates in our European
constituency, all offered together and inseparably under the dreadful closed
list system of proportional representation, I discover that only the heroic
Daniel Hannan is committed not to sit with the EPP.

So it takes a certain doggedness not to go over to UKIP or - even more
understandable - stay at home.

Dogged I am inclined to be, however, even though I think a bad result for the
Tories next week would be deserved after their wretched campaign. You may think
my reason a peculiar one.

It is because of the scale of the task. I have been studying the European
Constitution or, for we must respect the forms, "The Draft Constitutional Treaty
for the European Union". As I read, I have been comparing its 187 large pages
with the Constitution of the United States of America (24 small pages including
the Amendments).

The American Constitution is, in essence, the rules by which a Union of States
must do its business. It sets out the powers of the President and of Congress,
and the relation of those powers to those of the states. It explains the nature
and function of the Supreme Court, prescribes trial by jury, defines how to
declare war. It has nothing to say about the purpose of all this, beyond a
single introductory sentence about "domestic tranquillity", justice, common
defence, the general welfare and "the Blessings of Liberty". It leaves the
citizens free to work out their own purposes.

The European Constitution contains a distribution of powers, of course (though
often very opaquely defined), but it also contains far, far more. It is a
semi-religious declaration of belief in "Europe". It is a half-sorted heap of
all the things that "Europe" has arrogated to itself since the 1950s. It is also
a huge, sprawling amalgam of every bright idea that might occur to modern
educated people or modern powerful interest groups.

Thus, there must be measures "setting high quality and safety of organs and
substances of human origin", "a European space policy", the "quantitive
management of water resources" and action "protecting the physical and moral
integrity of sportsmen". What might or might not be a good individual policy is
translated on to a higher plane: each and all become part of the Constitution -
the legal framework of all our rights and duties. If we don't agree with one of
them, we are, in principle at least, unconstitutional.

It is only human to want to run from the room, screaming "No" at the top of your
voice, which is what UKIP wants. But one observes that the Ian Paisley approach
to politics may make one feel better, but doesn't get many results.

The Constitution discloses a European project so vast, so complicated, so far
advanced, that even the supposedly simple act of "getting out" would involve any
amount of bureaucracy, legal argument and horse-trading. What we need,
therefore, is a big, old, grown-up political party, preferably with a system of
allies in other member states, developing the doctrine and detail of
renegotiation, of opting out, of fighting back. The Tory party is the only
vehicle qualified by history to do this. I just wish there were more signs that
it will.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              328 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 5, 2004

BOYCOTT BACKS SCEPTICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 161 words


CRICKETER Geoff Boycott will be batting for the UK Independence Party at the
European elections, he revealed yesterday.

The former England opener said it was time to say "enough is enough" to handing
powers to Brussels as he became the latest celebrity to back the anti-EU party
in the June 10 poll.

"I am not a political animal. But I am concerned at the way governments of all
colours have handed powers to Brussels without the British people having a say
in the matter, " he said. Disgraced ex-Tory Cabinet minister Jonathan Aitken
also announced he was backing the UKIP.

Mr Aitken, who was jailed for perjury, said he would vote for the Eurosceptics
in the local and European elections.

His decision comes three months after Tory leader Michael Howard vetoed his
attempt to again become a parliamentary candidate for the party.

He joins a string of celebrities and prominent Tories who have thrown their
weight behind the UKIP campaign.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              329 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 5, 2004

Blair: I'm still in charge, whatever the result: PM prepares post poll fightback
amid Labour postal votes gloom

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 804 words


Tony Blair is planning an instant political fightback in the wake of next week's
European and local election results amid early signs that the postal voting
experiment is not delivering Labour's desired big increase in working-class
turnout.

Downing Street has already prepared a strategy in which Mr Blair will be
presented as "a man with a plan" and in full control of events. He hopes by the
weekend after the election results to point to an agreed UN strategy for Iraq,
and look forward to a successful outcome from the final EU heads of government
negotiation on the EU constitution on June 19.

He is expected to follow up with a big speech setting out his aims for the
public services.

The overall turnout in the four English regions - covering a third of the
electorate - holding all-postal ballots does appear to have risen, at least in
relation to the 1999 European elections. Senior Labour officials have told
candidates turnout is heading well over 30%.

But preliminary evidence from postal ballot returns this week show more
middle-class areas, such as East Riding of Yorkshire and Pendle, in Lancashire,
are voting more heavily than predominantly working-class areas such as Liverpool
where returns so far are as low as 13%.

In addition, Labour officials fear that many returned ballots may not be valid
because voters have failed to fill in witness statements correctly. They are set
to complain that the requirement for the statements was imposed at the last
minute by opposition parties in the House of Lords.

Mr Blair, expecting a drubbing in next week's polls, is already preparing a
media fightback, including appearances on the BBC Today programme, an address to
Labour MPs and a speech setting out his vision for radical public service reform
in Labour's third term. The aim will be to crush any suggestion that the prime
minister is an electoral liability, or that Labour has run out of ideas.

He is under pressure from some party modernisers, such as Alan Milburn and
Stephen Byers, to deliver his speech within two or three days of the election
results, setting out a positive third-term agenda and scotching speculation
about his leadership. Some modernisers argue privately that Labour's elections
campaign has been too negative.

If the results are disastrous, Downing Street is braced for a renewed bout of
speculation about the prime minister's leadership, but believe the campaign has
seen the pressure gradually shift from Mr Blair to Michael Howard, largely
thanks to the emergence of the UK Independence party as the chief beneficiary of
the protest vote.

Jonathan Aitken, the disgraced former Tory cabinet minister, became the latest
convert to Ukip, saying he would be voting for the party because he wants
Britain to remain more independent like Norway and Switzerland.

Labour strategists are already claiming that Mr Howard's campaign has flopped
and suggesting that the Tories will have failed if they do not win a minimum of
36% of the share of the vote in the Euro elections, the level achieved by the
Tories under William Hague's leadership in 1999.

All political parties are holding their breath, awaiting unusually unpredictable
election results.

Redrawing of the electoral boundaries makes the outcome of the metropolitan
councils very hard to read, but the Liberal Democrats are hoping to retain
control of Liverpool, and seize overall control in Kirklees, Sheffield and
Newcastle, setting a springboard for a general election assault on Labour across
the north. The Tories are targeting Birmingham and hoping to regain control of
councils in the south such as Winchester and Cheltenham.

There are also tentantive signs from parties that have seen returns that Ukip
has damaged the progress of the British National party, at least in the
north-west.

Labour is hoping the all-postal ballots in the north- west, north-east,
Yorkshire and the east Midlands will boost turnout well above the 24.1 % in 1999
and closer to 40%. Only three days after ballot papers were sent out, turnout in
rural East Riding has already risen to 24.9%. In Pendle, the figure is over 22%,
but across the north-west as a whole it is around 14%.

In Labour-controlled Leeds, returns have already reached 23%. But in the
north-east, where ballot papers were sent out late, returns are still minimal.
In Gateshead, the scene of a 55% turnout in a postal ballot for the local
elections last year, turnout on Thursday night - two days after ballot papers
went out - had yet to reach 10%. In Newcastle 12,000 ballot papers had been
returned out of 186,000 after two days.

In Derbyshire after the first 24 hours of returns turnout was above 10% and Euro
candidates are optimistic that turnout will exceed 30%.

guardian.co.uk/politics/ elections2004


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              330 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 5, 2004

Same old guff with an added ingredient: David Aaronovitch watches George
Galloway's campaign to win a seat in the European parliament

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 993 words


I chose at random, but I chose badly. The Respect website is full of reports of
huge meetings comprising hundreds of cheering people, and yet I wound up in a
pleasant community hall in north-east London with 25 Trots, some of their more
sceptical mates and five or six Muslims. "It's been raining," explained one of
the organisers, apologising for the delay in starting. "And George is on his
way."

George Galloway looks a bit tired now. He is not simply the main attraction of
the new Respect Coalition, but, as we shall see, he's the only attraction.
Allowing for the weird celebrity of the former Express journalist Yvonne Ridley
- the woman who liked the burka so much she bought the religion - Respect is
short on stars, and very, very long on everything else. So Galloway is being
worked extremely hard.

Still, when he finally arrives, and the Socialist Worker sellers outside put
down their burdens and join the congregation, he gives it his best shot.
"Chair," he booms, "brothers, comrades and friends, wa Salaam aleikum ."

This is a deeply peculiar form of address because, although 15% of Waltham
Forest's population may be Muslims (including Kurds, Turks and people from the
far east), 15% of this audience are palpably not Arabs. So why not shalom
aleichim for the local Jews? Or God bless for the Christians? Or greetings in
Greek, Albanian or Mandarin? The effect of this very particular form of greeting
is, paradoxically, to make one wonder what George has against everyone else. Why
aren't the Hindus worth a hello?

Such a solecism is made slightly worse by his next words. "Up and down the
country," he says, "thousands are responding to the central message that Britain
is led by a liar whose nose gets ever longer and needs to be chopped off!" Whoa!
Could this nose-chopping be, one wonders, an obscure Gallowegian interpretation
of sharia law? Come to that, does everyone in this room know what he's talking
about, given that the story of Pinocchio may not have quite the same role in
Middle Eastern culture as it does for many Europeans.

Galloway was recently awarded the title of the most honest politician in Britain
by the Muslim Association of Britain, so we must assume that he is telling the
truth when he claims, to the palpable pleasure of his audience, that, "100
people a day are joining Respect." This is an amazing figure. If maintained
Respect will have 40,000 members by the time of the next election.

By then, however, the Galloway plan may already have worked. As he explains it,
it goes like this. A bad result for Labour next Thursday, and a good one for
Respect, will lead automatically to Tony Blair's resignation. Blair's
resignation will lead automatically to George Bush's defeat in November.

Therefore those in this room, and the electors of Walthamstow, have a chance to
bring down the US president, and force Cherie to vacate Downing Street. "Can you
imagine," demands Galloway, in one of his comprehensively rhetorical questions,
"how they would cheer in Palestine and Iraq to see that removals van?"

Not easily, but I can imagine how they would cheer in Iraq to see one of
Saddam's closest European pals elected to a seat in the European parliament.
Which is to say, not much at all. The guy from Global Resistance, however, whose
stunted mohican is nearly 20 years too young for him, seems to think this is a
clincher. He gives it a big laugh and a big clap. So does the slim geordie
tending the two tables at the back: one displays Respect literature and the
other Socialist Workers party material.

Then Galloway leaves (to attend a meeting of Indian Muslims), as do most of the
Asians, and all the charisma. What remains is the almost inconceivably tedious
routine of the far-left political meeting.

There are two more speakers. Dean Ryan, a pleasant-looking guy from Hackney ("
Salaam aleikum ," he begins), sounds like a tube tannoy announcer given a
30-minute tract to read, but only 15 minutes to read it in. The other is Lindsey
German, a veteran SWP activist and Respect London mayoral candidate.

German's harangue is seamless, encompassing everything. "The poor, the
dispossessed, the students . . . " The students? And, of course, the Muslims.
How the South Africans would have loved to have had all those weapons the
Israelis have. Why the Green position on the United Nations in Iraq is really a
copout.

When German has encompassed the world, things are "thrown open to the floor",
leftese for finally permitting someone else to speak, which - as ever - mostly
means other members of the SWP. One woman begins: "I'm a teacher in Redbridge
and daily I see cutbacks." Which is unlucky. So much extra dosh has been spent
on schools, and none of it on hers. She is, however, also the woman who sold me
my copy of Socialist Worker as I came in. Big clap from stunted mohican.

The chair then calls the "chap at the back", who is in fact the SWP stall
tender, and who announces: "I am a university lecturer, and I've seen what
top-up fees are doing." Given that top-up fees won't come in for at least a
couple of years, this means he is also a clairvoyant.

What a weird alliance Respect is. In this year of tanned populists (everybody
needs one, including Ukip), George Galloway - a sitting MP - is accorded the
exaggerated regard by the Trots that New Labour used to give "entrepreneurs".
That's why they always call him the Respect MP, despite the fact that not a
single elector of Glasgow ever voted Respect.

They need him; he needs them. Their organisational and caucussing skills are
considerable, though in the eyes of normal humans they are both potty and
boring. But the really new element is the new added extra, Muslims, to whom
these heretofore secular Leninists try to suck up by suddenly being fascinated
by Kashmir and not caring less about abortion and gay rights.

I give 'em a year.

guardian.co.uk/politics/elections2004


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              331 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 5, 2004

Simon Hoggart's diary: In loo of payment

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1200 words


* Guardian readers may feel they've learned enough about the Hay festival over
the past week or so, and I have to say that this paper - usually so reticent
when it comes to corporate aggrandisement - has rather plastered itself over the
town, with the magnificent view of the hills almost blotted out by dozens of
flags labelled the Guardian.

The economics of a literary festival depend entirely on paying the speakers a
minimal fee, if anything. (At some they vaguely promise "you'll sell lots of
books", which means that maybe 11 people who haven't scarpered quickly enough
will feel obliged to buy one, netting - in my case - £6.60.)

Instead authors are lowered gently into a soothing Jacuzzi for the ego. They get
all the free food and booze they can shovel down, for themselves and anyone
they've brought along. They get half a case of champagne when they leave, and a
long-stemmed white rose at the end - an old Hay tradition, but of course nobody
has a clue what to do with theirs. See any two Hay speakers chatting after their
talks and they look like Oscar Wilde and Bosie.

If you used the rose as a buttonhole, the stem would poke you in the privates.
So they get left behind, sort of accidentally on purpose.

It's a measure of the care for detail that speakers don't have to use the same
smelly mobile toilets as the punters.

Instead we were provided with magnificent luxury loos by the Convenience
Company, whose slogan, according to their leaflet, is Give Us a Tinkle.

These lavatories were so plush and so odourless that you could have spent a
comfortable night in them. They even have names, such as the Mere, the Sylvan
and, largest of all, the Shire, a plaza suite among bogs. It's like going club
class on a plane; not only is it more spacious, but it brings a gratifying sense
of being separated from the riff-raff.

I spent much of the time, very agreeably, with Richard Fortey. Richard had the
room next to me in college. Now he's a famous paleontologist, like Ross from
Friends only without the whiny voice, and he has a new book out, The Earth: An
Intimate History. He told me about how he had given a talk at the Royal
Geographical Society and overheard one elderly member ask: "Are you going to buy
the lecturer's book?" He was told firmly: "No, I have quite enough books
already."

The festival finishes tomorrow evening, and it's well worth a visit, if only for
the incredible variety of bookshops in Hay itself. But don't think you can use
our toilets.

* I spent the next few days in a cottage in the country, working on my own book,
the collection of round robin Christmas letters. Once again, many thanks for the
hundreds you have sent in. It's still not too late; we can go on adding bits to
the last minute. I would hate to lose a perfect paragraph. Take the mother in
the chapter on other people's perfect children: "I asked the teacher if there
were any areas of weakness with Melanie (all names changed) that we should be
working on, and she replied, 'No, you have given me a little diamond, and all I
have to do is polish it.'"

Reading all these letters, some of which are thousands of words long, I noticed
two things. the first being the spleen and sheer hatred which comes over in so
many of your covering notes. But I also found in myself a sort of grudging
admiration for some of the people who have written these tracts. You read about
their charity work, their exciting and adventurous holidays, their gardening,
their home improvements, their church activities and their social lives, and you
think that if only half of it is true, and even if it conceals a deep core of
unhappiness, what energy!

What vigour and impetus these people have! It might imply rampant egotism to
write it all up, but you can't help but admire what they've done.

* Don't you think that this new craze of flying England flags from car windows
(they're attached to a sort of plastic clip, but you have to keep the window
wound up to hold them in place) is a bit pathetic? Does anyone really imagine
that if every car in the land were festooned, that collection of lazy, loutish,
overpaid boobies who couldn't stir themselves to beat Japan this week will win
the wretched tournament?

* In a thoughtful commentary in the Sun, Richard Littlejohn takes issue with the
chancellor. "The truth is that Gordon is screwing us to pay for his reckless
spending spree, which has done virtually nothing for public services other than
to add 500,000 useless Labour-voting Guardian readers to the payroll." What?
500,000 new readers? What would we give for that! If everyone who worked in the
public sector read the Guardian we'd all be rich, and would have private luxury
loos installed in our back gardens!

On the same day I read this paper's account of the D-day landings, from the
issue of June 7 1944. You should have a good look if you're ever tempted to say
the paper isn't what it was. Take the article headlined: How Manchester received
news of the landing. It starts: "Manchester received the long-awaited news with
tempered elation. There was no boisterous display. The bells of St Ann's Church
rang out a peal, but there was no flag-waving. The bells of some surburban
churches were also rung. Wherever men and women met, in workshop, office,
street, or cafe, there was a ready interchange of views or even of the exiguous
news itself." All this, around 600 words, at a time when newsprint was in
desperately short supply.

The crossword was boring - "7 down. As in regard (anag.). As for the anonymous
parliamentary sketch" - well, it must have been written by Harry Boardman, who
was highly esteemed in his day, and who produced a collection of his work called
The Glory of Parliament, not a title you would be likely to find today.

It's short on chuckles, but to be fair, parliament was taken much more seriously
then, and in the absence of broadcasting, readers were presumably interested in
any small descriptive titbit. As a whole, though, this edition of 60 years ago
is not exactly proof of this paper's departed glory, though Richard Littlejohn
might prefer it.

* I was thrilled to see that Joan Collins has offered one reason why she is
supporting Ukip at next week's European elections. The rising value of the euro
has made the upkeep of her home in St-Tropez more expensive.

* I used to think Derren Brown rather creepy, but I must congratulate him. His
recreation of a Victorian spiritualist seance on Channel 4 this week attracted
700 complaints - the third highest for any TV programme ever shown in this
country. It was a perfectly mounted stunt.

You could see that the students he'd assembled, sitting in the dark holding
hands, were utterly convinced that they were listening to a dead young woman
describing her life. A Uri Geller might have been tempted to go along with their
belief and take the credit for what seemed an astonishing message from beyond
the grave. Instead Brown just produced the woman in question, and she was very
much alive.

No wonder there were complaints. A startling number of people believe in this
spiritualist nonsense, and hate to have it exposed as a complete sham.


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              332 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 5, 2004

Kilroy Silk and Collins, my flexible friends

BYLINE: Dave Podmore

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 766 words


Dave Podmore has always believed that success in cricket is about staying
mentally flexible. That means being prepared to experiment with different TV
Ibiza holiday rep shows on the team bus, it means not staying wedded to the same
ringtone or attractive Scrumpy Jack representative - you have to move on. Life
isn't a rehearsal.

Flexibility in the mental arena also means being prepared to move yourself lower
in the batting order. Pod himself has done a Vaughany in his time, dropping down
from No11 to 12th man so as to take the pressure off a bit. It worked up to a
point, though when I finally got on the field I unfortunately managed to put
down a vital drinks tray. So the system is not foolproof and it could well be
that young Master Strauss turns out to play like an item of gentleman's
underwear not unadjacent to the private parts.

In which case we'll all have been wasting our time accommodating his nibs. Nass
needn't have retired, there needn't have been a team of medics on standby to
induce Vaughany's baby . . . I even hear Lord Straussy of Middlesex has had the
dressing room redecorated with William Morris wallpaper and got his butler to
request that the rest of this summer's Tests plus the winter tour of South
Africa be played at Lord's, so it's easier for him to get to work.

As you can probably tell, Pod thinks that things have gone completely AWOL as
regards this special treatment for someone who's come from nowhere and was still
in short trousers when your correspondent was serving the game, recruiting for
the South African Breweries tour.

Nevertheless the principle of flexibility is still a good 'un, which is why I've
decided to change my political allegiances from a party which has served us well
down the years but I'm afraid has now gone soft. Deserting the BNP for UKIP was
something I've been thinking about for some time, to be honest, but it came to a
head on the M42 the other day when I was exercising my rights as an Englishman
to collect Euro 2004 flags that had blown off cars and scattered themselves
across six lanes.

My road to Damascus moment - actually more of a road-rage conversion - came when
I found myself prevented from going about my business operating a stall on the
hard shoulder by one of Mr Blunkett's gestapo. Apparently I was "a danger to
other motorists" with my patriotic efforts to earn an honest bob or whatever
it's called now.

Something snapped, and I don't just mean the elasticated waistband on my Blue
Harbour Easifits, caused by having to carrying around wads of extra cash to pay
for petrol at a fiver a gallon. It's everything that's happening to this country
really, from speed cameras to the promotion of same-sex marriages, something
that disgusts Pod to his marrows.

Now I know some readers might point to the announcement in Wisden in 1992 that
Spamhead and I were tying the knot when we were both at Derby. I have to stress
that this was purely for tax rea sons - we had back-to-back benefits and it was
just common sense really. Plus we were really good mates, too - still are -it
was very sad that it had to end.

So come this weekend Pod will be donning the purple and yellow and pound sign
logo and bowling the first ball in a six-a-side celebrity fund-raiser in aid of
the UK Independence Party. It's going to be a great day out - fun is the name of
the game but there are going to be some political big hitters on hand (Joan
Collins, Stirling Moss and Emma from Big Brother 3 have all promised to show up)
to remind everyone of the deadly serious threat facing our country.

Manning the PA will be the lord of misrule himself Robert Kilroy-Silk, though
he'll have to watch his mouth - we wouldn't want to upset our oppo the Free
Church of Country Sports who can be a bit sensitive though not of course when it
comes to disembowelling foxes (which will form part of the between-innings
entertainment). For anybody who wants to come and join in, battle will commence
at the lovely Praxair Surface Technologies ground in Swindon, where petrol's
only 79.9p a litre, a bit of a lollipop to attract the fuel protest posse from
Wales.

Latest news on team selection is that Joan Collins has offered to give up her
place as opener, dropping down the order to make way for some new blood in the
shape of Sir Patrick Moore. Joanie's a true pro and recognises that
flexibility's the keynote, whether it's England or a lunatic political fringe.

Dave Podmore was persuading Christopher Douglas and Andrew Nickolds to donate
their fee to help save the British fishing fleet


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              333 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

DEBORAH ORR: YOUR RIGHT TO DRIVE - AND BEHAVE LIKE AN IRRESPONSIBLE, SELFISH
IDIOT

BYLINE: DEBORAH ORR

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 428 words


The war against drivers rages on. Friends of the Motorist is a single-issue
pressure group which defends "Your Right to Drive" and "Your Right to Park". Its
latest flyer, which encourages London drivers to vote conservative or UK
Independence Party in the forthcoming local elections, declares that under
Labour and Lib-Dem councils "motorists have become the largest subordinated,
targeted and victimised group in the country". Which is marvellous news for
asylum-seekers.

It suggests that all those in favour of disciplined regulation of vehicle use
are "anti-motorist politicians and self-serving Luddite lobby groups who seem to
want to take the country back to the days of the horse and cart and pit pony".
It accuses Lambeth Council of pioneering "the scam of lifting cars, painting
yellow lines and then ticketing the car". It demands that the number of traffic
wardens be drastically reduced and that somebody or other should be "relocating
them to appropriate non-parasitic jobs in factories or on farms".

Friends of the Motorist also wants speed limits to be increased "at times when
children are in school". How will Britain's 30 million drivers be kept informed
on the intricacies of school terms and holidays, when parents themselves find
this task Herculean enough? In fact, if your children go to several schools,
then you'll know that barely a week goes by without one of them being on
holiday. Which will mean faster driving for interested parties for six hours on
about 40 days a year. (Watch out for those jay- walking grown-ups though.
According to the most recent figures 45,000 adults can expect to be seriously
injured or killed every year in car accidents.)

It is pretty obvious that those most incensed by the restrictions on their
"right" to drive do not have young families at all, and pay only lip service to
the idea that roads should be safe even for children. Because any parent knows
how many children's rights have been sacrificed already to the rights of the
driver. Like the right to independent local travel, to play outdoors, to clean
air, and to quiet streets. Thousands every year sacrifice the right to unbroken
bones and unpierced organs, or the right to life itself.

As for the future, if people such as Friends of the Motorist don't stop being
such ignorant, stupid ostriches - well, it really will include large-scale
environmental degradation, and ruthless resources wars. All this, apparently, is
as nothing compared to some loony's right to take the car down the shop for free
instead of walking.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              334 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

FUEL PROTESTS POSTPONED AFTER RETHINK ON TAX RISE

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Andrew Spence, a Fuel Lobby
leader, says protests might resume Kippa Matthews

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 563 words


A WAVE of fuel protests which threatened to bring British cities to a standstill
have been postponed after Chancellor Gordon Brown promised to rethink plans to
increase duty.

Campaigners said yesterday that protests using slow-moving lorries would be
cancelled after the Government promised to consider scrapping the planned 2p a
litre tax rise. But they issued a veiled threat that if the duty was not
scrapped in August the protests would continue in September.

David Handley, chairman of Farmers for Action, who helped organise the protests
in 2000 which brought several cities to a halt, warned he would give the
Chancellor less than a month to review the increase. "We met following Gordon
Brown's announcement that he is reconsidering increasing duty in September. With
the move from Opec we certainly will not be taking further action for the next
two to three weeks," he said. "Gordon Brown has clearly indicated he is going to
look and go back and reinvestigate the increase. We feel we should give him two
to three weeks - you can still protest in September." The only protest that will
go ahead is in Cardiff this weekend because it is too late to cancel it,
campaign leaders said. But demonstrations planned for Newcastle, Birmingham,
Manchester, Liverpool and London on Wednesday, the day before the local, London
and European elections, have been cancelled.

Andrew Spence, senior spokesman for the Fuel Lobby, said protesters would hold
meetings with government officials in the coming weeks about the rising price of
petrol.

"With Gordon Brown's remarks yesterday, we feel it is a positive sign in the
right direction. We are being sensitive at the moment, especially when the
Government is making positive dialogue, so we are prepared to give Mr Brown the
benefit of the doubt and see what his proposals are," said Mr Spence, who stood
as a UKIP candidate against Tony Blair at the last general election. "This is
only a postponement and if we do not get the continuation of positive dialogue,
there will be no more warnings given." Yesterday the Prime Minister reiterated
the Government's decision to rethink the rise in fuel duty and said he
understood "there is a problem for businesses and motorists".

"I think it's sensible to keep it under review, because what's happened with oil
prices and world demand and the worries over terrorism has meant the oil price
has gone up," he told BBC Breakfast. But Mr Blair did not say how high prices
would have to be before the tax rise was abandoned. "I don't think we can pick
an arbitrary figure. It's a question of looking at it in the round," he said.

CARDIFF ACTION

POLICE EXPECT about 300 lorries to converge on Cardiff today as demonstrators go
ahead with their fuel protest.

Most lorries are likely to be travelling from the Cross Hands area of west Wales
along the M4, a South Wales Police spokesman said. They will join protesters
travelling from other areas of south Wales near the Cardiff West services at
around lunchtime, before driving into the city centre.

David Davies, a Conservative Member of the Welsh Assembly, said the protesters
were "proud, hard-working people". Martin Palmer, spokesman for the Low Tax on
Fuel group, which is organising the protest, said government promises to review
the fuel tax were "a step in the right direction" but not enough.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              335 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

FRINTON-ON-SEA: LAST OUTPOST OF A LONG-FORGOTTEN EMPIRE;
 IT'S RESIDENTS CAMPAIGNED AGAINST THE PUB, BANNED ICE CREAM ON THE

BYLINE: MICHAEL COLLINS The promenade at Frinton-on-Sea is attracting too many
tourists for the locals' liking. A pub in the town was strongly opposed for
years. The level crossing is known as the gates' to Frinton and keeps outsiders
away Malcom Watson, Amit Lennon, Tom Craig

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 1557 words


"WE LOST out to the pub, I suppose now we'll lose the pound." They are the words
of an elderly woman who's discussing Europe in between talking about D-Day.
She's talking to a queue in the local bakers, where she's buying "a small, uncut
tin" loaf. Her fears and reminiscences are echoed by those in earshot. This is
Frinton-on-Sea, Essex, where sterling and sovereignty are big talking points.

At first sight, you could mistake it for a Tory heartland. Famously, many of
Frinton's residents are in their dotage (a phrase which gets short shrift
locally is "Harwich for the Continent, Frinton for the incontinent") and adhere
to a sartorial decorum and a social etiquette of a bygone age. In fact, visiting
Frinton is a little like being in a play, directed by David Lean and starring
Celia Johnson. Indeed, Noel Coward used to holiday in Frinton and it was home to
Ursula Bloom, a novelist in the style of P G Wodehouse who described a genteel
cafe society.

But the residents of Frinton are those recently dismissed by Michael Howard as
"extremists" and "gadflies". This quiet seaside town has a groundswell of
support for the United Kingdom Independence Party. Mr Howard is not the first
high-profile MP from the main parties to take potshots at UKIP. Since the party
gained momentum at the previous European election, many have tried to taint it
with accusations of racism that have proved unfounded. A Liberal Democrat MEP
was forced to admit: "They're not fascists, they're not corrupt and they're not
morons. Some of their members are headbangers, though."

In Frinton front gardens, the boards of support emblazoned with a huge "No", in
which the "o' is that starry symbol of the European Union, grow between the
lupins. The town is regarded as UKIP HQ, the home of the "Little Englanders" the
party reputedly represents. The term itself first became part of common parlance
in the 1890s, as a means of dismissing those opposed to further expansion of the
British Empire.

These days, it is brought into service to round up those opposed to the
expansion of European power, as determined from Brussels. Writing in the wake of
the 1999 European elections in which UKIP became the fourth biggest party in
Britain, and the only one calling for complete withdrawal from the EU, Matthew
Engels suggested that UKIP was attempting to bring "Frinton's world view" to
Europe.

One of its MEPs and the former party leader - and, before the inauguration of
Robert Kilroy-Silk, the most press worthy - is Jeffrey Titford. An established
Frintonian, he is the man behind the town's most prominent funeral service.
Before retiring and eventually taking up the reigns of UKIP, his work rarely
took him further than Harwich. Because of the demographic in this patch of East
Anglia, death is big business.

For a long time, Frinton was described as "the town of temperance" because of
its refusal - largely due to the strident activism of its resident's association
- to allow a pub to open "within the gates". "The gates" refers to the level
crossing that separates Frinton's main stretch from the rest of the world.
Inside "the gates" exist rows of monied avenues reaching towards the golf and
tennis club - where you'll find "the Happy Valley set", as one resident
describes them - and, at its other extreme, a peppering of exquisite art deco
houses so picturesque they warranted a feature in Country Life in the 1930s.
These were to be the first of many similar properties, intended to transform the
neighbourhood into a monument to that mode of architecture. The plans were
thwarted by the war.

The battle against the arrival of the pub was lost in 2000 but with some
appeasement to local wishes. The Lock, Stock & Barrel is housed within the
town's former, expansive hardware store and much of the exterior has remained
intact.

The pub is on the town's central shopping street, Connaught Avenue. It is here
that all the shops within the gates are assembled. Once known as the "Bond
Street of East Anglia", it retains a touch of that faux continentalism that owes
more to a Victoria Wood sketch than the European community. Above the door of
one hairdresser, hangs the name Renee Leonard, and, until recently, a boutique
held the title of "Snaffles featuring Madame Baldwin". The boulangerie and the
delicatessen however, are part of more recent developments within Frinton. They
are considered symptoms of creeping Europeanisation and are frowned upon by
some.

Certain larger houses facing the greensward - a thick grassy margin between
Frinton's suburban aspect and its beach huts and sandy shore - are being
demolished, as their older, wealthier inhabitants die, or depart for foreign
climes (Gibraltar and Florida are favoured by Frintonians). Property developers
are moving speedily to knock-up apartments and retirement homes. The splendid,
sprawling, white colonial-style home "Hollywood", once owned by the actor
Douglas Fairbanks, is in the process of having such a structure erected on what
was previously the house's front lawn, with its bird's-eye view of the sea.

Back at the bakery, the elderly woman is leaving with her loaf of bread and
voices her criticism of the changes. "It was always self-contained here and you
didn't even need to go beyond the gates. Now there's the pub, and a
fish-and-chip shop, and all these new buildings in every spare garden. We used
to have only daytrippers here. Now they arrive in coachloads'.

Frinton remains self-contained, with its main shopping stretch relying on local
family businesses, and with scant sign of the superstores that have colonised so
many high streets elsewhere. It is that untouched local culture which is part of
the attraction for a new generation. More are remaining in Frinton after they
leave school and many are moving in from elsewhere, downsizing, taking on
smaller houses and working close by instead of commuting.

The old-fashioned strictness of the place hasn't put off a younger populace.
Frinton is notorious for its numerous bylaws including rules that ban hawkers
and ice-cream vendors from the beach and promenade. And you can forget about
picnicking on the greensward. The last thing Frinton wants is to turn into the
same kind of seaside town as it's tackier neighbour, Clacton. There was a fuss
when signs were changed from imperial to metric and, when locals walk their
dogs, they always carry a small bag to clean up after them. The gardens and
borders of Frinton are well looked after, bursting with flowers and hanging with
tumbling baskets. You'd never think that a place like this could also be home to
a thriving swingers scene - there's a website dedicated to wife-swapping in the
district - but that's the only blot on Frinton's landscape.

"Frinton, has always been the place where you can walk around with your head up
your arse", says part-time gardener Liz Gregory who has lived here since she was
10. "It's as though the world outside doesn't exist, and, within the gates, it's
1959."

During the school run, a neighbour accompanies her, and adds: "It's a great
place to be until you're 13, and somewhere to return to when you're close to 40.
It's got things that you can only appreciate when you're very young or
middle-aged. The little trouble there is comes from teenagers with nothing to
do."

That tallies with a recent development that has caused consternation. A couple
of years ago, a teenage gang calling themselves the Hubcaps were living up to
their name by stealing hubcaps from cars, and spray painting their moniker on
the immaculate shelters on the greensward. Increasingly, "hooded youths" have
become a problem - some blame the pub, which reputedly brings in teenagers from
Clacton - and there are now measures to find a solution or a palliative. The
Spar supermarket has a security guard. The train station plays classical music,
fortissimo, from the platform speakers. It is intended to have a sobering effect
on the young, and placate the elderly.

But with its youth, attuned to the modern world outside the gates and in the
confines of the European parliament, with UKIP support expecting to result in a
protest vote in Thursday's elections, and with more than 50 per cent of the
nation reported to favour withdrawal from the EU, or be against the euro,
Frinton-on-Sea may not be the only pocket of the island that votes to remain
red, white and blue.

The Likes of Us: A Biography of the White Working Class by Michael Collins, will
be published by in July.

HEROES OF MIDDLE ENGLAND: UKIP'S MEPS

Nigel Farage, MEP for the South-east

A commodities broker from Kent and the driving force behind the UKIP, he was a
founding member in 1993 and party chairman from 1997 to 2000 before being
elected to the European Parliament in 1999.

Graham Booth, MEP for the South-west

A former deputy party leader, Mr Booth, 64, is a lifelong resident of Paignton,
Devon, who left school at 16 and ran his family holiday business for 40 years
before going into semi retirement in 2000 "to devote more time to UKIP". His
hobbies include water skiing and coin collecting.

Jeffrey Titford, MEP for the Eastern Region

A retired undertaker and former UKIP leader, he was elected an MEP in 1999. A
former Conservative, he also campaigned for the Referendum Party in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              336 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

THE SELF-STYLED SAVIOUR OF BRITAIN;
 THE SATURDAY PROFILE ROBERT KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: PAUL VALLELY Kilroy-Silk's trademark blend of mild-mannered bombast and
feigned seriousness has allowed the former Labour MP and chat-show host to
present himself as a populist alternative to conventional politicians Peter
Macdiarmid/ Reuters

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 40,41

LENGTH: 1761 words


You'd probably have to hammer a stake through the heart of Robert Kilroy-Silk to
finish him off properly. The man who has had almost as many comebacks as Jeffrey
Archer - as politics lecturer, Labour MP, pounds 600,000- a-year daytime TV
presenter until he was sacked by the BBC for branding Arabs as "suicide bombers,
limb amputators and women repressors", and vituperative newspaper columnist -
has reinvented himself as a candidate for the European Parliament in next week's
elections. He stands every chance of getting elected. That is not all. There is
talk about him becoming the leader of his new party UKIP, the UK Independence
Party, and possibly even of a return to the House of Commons.

Titter ye not. It's true that UKIP's recent party political broadcast had the
Benny Hill theme tune as its background, as a toff in black tie is interrupted
digging up spuds by a thigh-slapping Austrian in lederhosen. The foreigner slaps
the Brit in the face with a fish, to a Kilroy voice- over about the European
Union's fishing policy being "codswallop".

But the famously tanned former TV agony aunt is determined not to be seen as the
figure of fun in his new party. In case Robin One Man and His Dog Page or Sir
Patrick The Sky at Night Moore were insufficiently celebrated in the pantheon of
eccentric UKIP stars, Mr Kilroy-Silk has wheeled in the Dynasty star Joan
Collins as patron of the party.

With a star as glitzy, empty-headed and physically well-preserved as Miss
Collins, there is no danger of anyone accusing Mr Kilroy-Silk of being anything
other than the party's serious philosopher and political strategist. Indeed, he
demonstrated as much as he chaperoned her through her introductory press
conference, smoothly coming to her rescue when she revealed that she has never
even voted in a British election before. "Joan Collins believes what we believe
in," he said, as she then swept out of the room to star in the matinee at the
Theatre Royal, Nottingham. "It is no surprise that, as an independent woman, she
wants to live in a country that is also independent."

This skill as a translator of public grunts into coherent statements of
political intent has been a long time in the honing. In his 18 years as a
daytime TV host, he had a quarter of a million people through his television
studios. He subjected them to a mixture of solicitous concern, unctuous charm
and glib moralising which he now hopes will become a vote- winner even as it
was, for all those years, a ratings-puller. He has been employing it shamelessly
out on the stump this week.

"Give us a kiss," he said to two white-haired old ladies on a bench in Lincoln.
Without waiting for an answer, he hugged and kissed them. "It's you, isn't it?"
one woman said.

"It's me, my love," Mr Kilroy-Silk said warmly. "Do I get your vote?" the man of
the people asked before jumping back into his chauffeur-driven Jaguar, adorned
with a sticker reading: "Say Boo to the EU."

It is not just his smooth-operator charm which wins over the punters. There are
his views too. These were expressed in fairly circumspect ways while he was at
the BBC. Though his column in the Sunday Express was far more bilious, it didn't
really matter because no one who mattered ever read it. Until, that is, his
fateful remarks about the Arabs led people to trawl through back copies of the
paper.

Then it was discovered that Ireland was a country peopled by "peasants, priests
and pixies", that "Pakistanis want to generate hate", that the French were
"devious", the Germans "truculent" and the Spanish "not to be trusted". The
problems of Africa were "mostly the fault of Africans"; black youths "are
responsible for the majority of gun and street crime", and that paratroopers
should "herd the immigrants together and cart them off to Dover where they are
dumped on a secure slow boat to - wherever".

All this is a long way to the right of the radical young student that he was at
the LSE in the Sixties or the trendy young politics lecturer he then became at
Liverpool University (in which capacity he interviewed a mature student called
Peter Kilfoyle, now the MP for Liverpool Walton, and turned him down for a
place).

Nor would such views have gone down well during the television interview he gave
as the newly elected Labour MP for Ormskirk in 1974 in which, filmed on his
journey to London to take up his seat, he forecast that he would be Prime
Minister within 15 years. In those days he got himself elected as chairman of
the All Party Penal Affairs Group and became a sponsor of the pressure group
Radical Alternatives to Prison. Still, herding people down the Channel Tunnel is
radical in its own way, I suppose.

But then the suede-shoed socialist has always been a young man on a journey. The
son of a navy stoker from Birmingham, as a boy he had to share an outside toilet
with others, a background he minimised at the LSE when he double-barrelled his
name by adding together those of his father and stepfather. In politics he
worked his way through various backbench groups to become a Parliamentary
Private Secretary to the Arts Minister and thence a junior opposition spokesman
on home affairs. But after 11 years in parliament he was forced out of his seat
by Militant in 1985. Despite well-documented fisticuffs with a trade union
activist at the 1985 Labour conference, he did not put up much of a fight. "He
never faced up to Militant at all," says Peter Kilfoyle. "He just packed his
bags and went."

TV beckoned. Kilroy became a byword for trashy exchanges about cheating
boyfriends and female alcoholism. Though even here historical revisionism is at
work. "It was the BBC who insisted we did those, for the ratings," he said in a
recent interview. "I would have done every programme on pensioners and the
health service if I could."

But then came the row about his attack on the Arabs. The Commission for Racial
Equality accused him of inciting racial hatred. He was forced into a humiliating
apology to readers and viewers, but it was not enough to save his job among BBC
executives, many of whom had become ashamed of his low-life show in the run-up
to charter renewal. Earlier this month the BBC announced that the show which
replaced Kilroy - run by the former presenter but with him decidedly off-screen
- was to go too. Some 65 members of the staff of his Teddington production
company have lost their jobs. Whether they will find another as easily as their
beloved boss is doubtful.

The offer for Robert Kilroy-Silk to re-enter politics was made at a lunch party
with a prominent UKIP supporter, the Earl of Bradford, on holiday in Spain where
Kilroy owns a pounds 2m, 100-acre estate on the Costa del Sol. It was apparently
agreed that the former MP would be nominated without need of a selection
meeting.

Kilroy could see that UKIP was now more than a joke party. Its campaign coffers
had been swelled by a pounds 2m donation from Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire shopping
centre tycoon. Dick Morris, who was Bill Clinton's campaign strategist, was on
board as an adviser. The party had even hired the infamous publicist Max
Clifford at pounds 20,000 a month as its public relations guru.

In the East Midlands seat in which he is standing, UKIP got 7 per cent of the
vote in the last Euro election. Though Kilroy need to double that to win a seat,
UKIP was getting 18 per cent of intended votes nationally in a recent YouGov
poll in which the party overtook the Liberal Democrats, pulling into third place
after Labour and the Tories. Since the introduction of a list system of
proportional representation has made it relatively easy for minority parties to
win seats in Strasbourg - with votes that would just scrape past deposit-saving
levels in Westminster elections - it is now a serious possibility that Kilroy's
party could take 12 seats.

Robert Kilroy-Silk's trademark mixture of mild-mannered bombast and feigned
seriousness - which was well displayed this week in his Newsnight exchange with
Tory spokesman John Redwood - could well do the trick.

And there is a plausibility about his presentation of himself as an anti-
politician politician. "The people in middle Britain are also fed up with being
lied to," he says. "They know they have been lied to over the European Union and
the proposed European Constitution. They know they were lied to over the war in
Iraq. They know they are being lied to about asylum- seekers and immigration."

Knowing that Kilroy has in 18 years of daytime TV learned to manipulate public
emotions better than most politicians may count for little. The Americans have
got Arnie Schwarzenegger, and we may well find that Kilroy finds his way into
the "I'm a celebrity get me into there" world of Euro politics.

Apart from anything else, the man needs a job. "What easier way is there to make
an awful lot of money doing absolutely nothing than to be an MEP?" as Clifford
says. "I knew it would be perfect for him." Not, of course, that he will have to
go to Strasbourg and do the boring stuff. "I'm not going to be bogged down by
the European parliament," he told one reporter this week. "I'll spend as little
time there as possible." Welcome to reality politics, 2004.

A LIFE IN BRIEF

Born

19 May 1942 in Birmingham. Son of William Silk, who was killed in action in the
Navy. Stepfather John Kilroy.

Family

Married shop steward's daughter, Jan Beech in 1963. One son, one daughter.

Education

Saltley Grammar School, Birmingham; London School of Economics.

Career

Politics lecturer at Liverpool University 1966-74; Labour MP for Ormskirk
1974-83, and for Knowsley North 1983-86; opposition frontbench spokesman on the
Home Office 1974-75; TV presenter 1987-2004; newspaper columnist since 1987.

He says...

"TV is just a job to me. I'm paid an awful lot of money, which is why I continue
to do it, but it's not exactly brain surgery, is it?"

"We're told that the Arabs loathe us ... What do they think we feel about them?
That we adore them for the way they murdered more than 3,000 civilians on
September 11, and then danced in the hot, dusty streets to celebrate the
murders?"

"It's terrific, it's what I know."

(of his return to politics).

They say...

"Good luck, Kilroy-Silk ... but you picked the wrong party!"

BNP website.

"He is back, competing to be the most anti-European act in town on top of his
other prejudices. The lights still flicker, but no one is watching Kilroy now."

Phillip Whitehead, Labour MEP.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              337 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

FAITH & REASON: POLITICAL COURAGE IS NEEDED TO TACKLE OUR ASYLUM MYTHS;
  MIGRATION HAS BEEN ONE OF THE DRIVING FORCES OF GLOBAL ECONOMIC

BYLINE: PAUL VALLELY

SECTION: First Edition; OBITUARIES; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 787 words


HERE'S SOMETHING you wouldn't have thought possible with a Cabinet full of
Christian socialists. Over dinner the other night someone who spends their days
working with refugees told me the story of a young man named Nsamu, from the
Congo, a place he fled for fear that his name would be added to those of the
five million people who have died in the current conflict there.

Nsamu arrived in 1997 and applied for political asylum here. After going through
the long process his application and subsequent appeals were all turned down.
But he has not been sent back because the Congo is one of those countries which
the Home Office deems "unsafe" for the return of individuals who are deemed not
to have legitimate cause to be given asylum status here. "You say that you were
in a room which was sprayed indiscriminately with bullets," as one official
refusal explained. "The Secretary of State considers that, since the shooting
was indiscriminate, you as an individual do not have a well-founded fear of
persecution".

But under rules introduced by the Government - designed to send out the message
to other potential asylum-seekers that they are not welcome - Nsamu is denied
the right to work, the right to all income from welfare benefits, and the right
to emergency accommodation. Nsamu therefore sleeps rough on park benches and in
shop doorways - taking a place in a short- term hostel when one becomes
available but being forced back onto the streets of London when he has exhausted
the maximum stay allowed in each place. There is no prospect of an end to this
limbo existence.

An election leaflet from the British National Party came through our door this
week. Among its long list of inflammatory claims was one that "the flood" of
asylum-seekers was leading the Government to plan the despoliation of England's
green and pleasant countryside by building five giant new cities the size of
Birmingham to house this influx of foreign incomers over the next 30 years. The
establishment is fighting back against such alarmism. The Chief Constable of
Northumbria has referred one BNP leaflet to the Crown Prosecution Service. The
churches have launched a campaign which proclaims, without intended irony,
"Don't be negative, don't vote BNP".

Yet it is easy to scapegoat the BNP here. The problem is much wider. Asylum is
high up the list of concerns of the UK Independence Party. And for all their
condemnations of the BNP both the Tories and Labour have policies on asylum
which pander to tabloid prejudices about "swamping" which drive this debate.
Indeed New Labour - which is rightly proud of its concern for the marginalised
and socially excluded in other spheres - has on asylum acquiesced to policies of
such illiberality that extremist instincts have become mainstream policy,
despite the injunction which appears no fewer than 36 times in the scriptures
which Jews and Christians share that we should make the stranger welcome.

Much is made in the debate of "bogus asylum seekers" who are really economic
migrants in disguise. This is a curious business. For history teaches us that
migration was a crucial part of the globalisation of the world economy which
began in the mid 19th century and which brought a worldwide spurt in living
standards of ordinary people. What it showed is that migrants transfer ideas,
skills and technology to their new community, boosting stagnant birth-rates and
labour pools, and helping the economies of their original homelands by remitting
large amounts of money to relatives "back home".

At the end of the golden age of migration, from 1840-1910, some 10 per cent of
people lived outside their country of birth. Today, for all the talk of floods
and swampings, that figure is just 3 per cent. The truth is this is a time of
new insularity. Although we talk of globalisation and the free movement of
goods, capital, ideas and services, we have forgotten about the benefits of the
free movement of people too. Yet if we are free to dump our surplus subsidised
goods on them, we should not be that surprised if they want to dump their
surplus people on us.

If immigrants will work, why not? Of course there are tricky side-issues to sort
out. If our welfare system, rather than work, is the magnet that attracts
incomers then we may have to adjust our system to re-base it on contributions or
citizenship qualifications. But we should do so without resorting to treating
those like Nsamu, who fall between the gaps, with base indignity.

What we need are leaders with the political courage to speak out on this,
combating the false rhetoric which reinforces the dark irrationality of the
message that we are right to be afraid of the stranger.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              338 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

HOWARD TO SACK BUMBLING TORY OAF;
 (WE HAVEN'T HEARD WHAT HE'S GOING TO DO WITH THE OTHER 11)

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 294 words

HIGHLIGHT: GAFFES: Oliver Letwin


SHADOW Chancellor Oliver Letwin is facing the sack in a sweeping Tory reshuffle,
senior party figures claim.

Michael Howard is said to be furious at his party's faltering campaign for the
June 10 elections.

The Tory leader wants shut of upper-class Letwin after a string of gaffes.

Other front-benchers could also have to go as Mr Howard gets tough.

One senior Tory figure said Mr Howard had been "distinctly underwhelmed" by Mr
Letwin. At the start of the campaign he let slip his party wanted pounds
150billion worth of spending cuts in a propaganda gift to Labour.

He has also hinted at Tory plans to make massive cuts to the NHS if they ever
get back into power.

A Tory source said: "Intellectually, Oliver is very bright but that is not the
only attribute needed in a Shadow Chancellor." Another Tory said there should be
a "rigorous performance assessment" on other failing front-benchers.

Health and education spokesman Tim Yeo, Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram
and local government spokeswoman Caroline Spelman are all seen as
under-performing.

The Tories have been badly hit by a surge in support for the far-right United
Kingdom Independence Party.

And there is a deep depression within Tory HQ that they will fail to make
progress in the June 1O elections when Labour should be at their weakest.

Mr Letwin, a former merchant banker, has a history of gaffes.

He had to go into hiding in the 2001 General Election after saying he would like
to slash public spending.

He claimed he would rather "beg in the streets" than send his children to a
state school.

And when he was a junior Treasury spokesman he was burgled after letting two men
into his house at 4am after they said they needed the toilet.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              339 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

EX-CON STARS BOOST UKIP

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 107 words


THE far-right UK Independence Party last night turned to Geoffrey Boycott and
Jonathan Aitken, who both have criminal records, to boost their support.

Former England cricketer Boycott - convicted of beating up a girlfriend - said:
"I am not a political animal. But I am concerned at the way governments have
handed powers to Brussels without the British people having a say in the
matter."

Ex-Tory minister Aitken, jailed for perjury, said: "I am convinced by their case
for renegotiating Britain's future relationship with the EU."

The party - fronted by sacked TV presenter Robert Kilroy Silk - wants to pull
out of the EU.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              340 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

MATTHEW NORMAN: EUR BACK ON TELLY

BYLINE: MATTHEW NORMAN

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 242 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRAGIC: Kilroy


SO now we know why Robert Kilroy-Silk joined the UK Independence Party. It was
the only way he could get himself back on telly.

Kilroy's party political broadcast was a joy. To see the turkey-necked Narcissus
chatting away with market traders (I mean, come on, how can the party be racist
if a Sikh guy wants to save the pound?) reminded us what we're missing on
BBC1... a self-worshipping lounge lizard who makes the Wicked Queen in Snow
White seem mirrorphobic.

Funnily enough, the very next morning a poll showed that one third of all
Britons want to emigrate. Soon in Warsaw there'll be a Kilroyski warning of the
need to close the Polish borders to keep out the hordes of freeloading Brits.

But now that Kilroy's done his bit for the pro-Euro argument, what next? If him
and his mates are right, some Euro MEPs are a bunch of idle scroungers who do
nothing but fiddle their expenses. So if he is elected to Brussels next week,
he'll need something else to do.

I have an answer that would stick him back on TV more permanently.

He should team up with fellow UKIP enthusiast Joan Collins, and remake those
Cinzano adverts. He's no Leonard Rossiter, but he does have Rigsby's little
Englander prejudices and meanness of spirit.

How they'd square off being paid a fortune by an Italian company in euros, I'm
not sure. But even if they couldn't swallow the aromatic aperitif, no doubt
they'd find a way to swallow their pride.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              341 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

FIONA: UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY

BYLINE: FIONA PHILLIPS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 52 words


THE UK Independence Party looks set to steal votes from the Tories in next
week's European elections. Could it be because their message on Europe has been
received and understood? They want an 'amicable withdrawal' from the EU. The
Conservatives meanwhile intend to...er...ok, I admit I don't know. Do you?

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              342 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 5, 2004

LIAR AITKEN BACKS UKIP

LENGTH: 90 words


SHAMED ex-Tory Cabinet minister Jonathan Aitken last night backed the anti-EU UK
Independence Party.

He switched sides in revenge for being snubbed in his bid to make a political
comeback.

Aitken, who was jailed for perjury, said he will vote for the party in
Thursday's elections.

Ex-England cricketer Geoffrey Boycott also joined UKIP yesterday and said: "It's
time to be counted."

He joins a string of celebrities, including former TV chat show host Robert
Kilroy-Silk and actress Joan Collins, to back the party.


LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              343 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

Anxious anticipation tempers upbeat mood at No 10

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 18

LENGTH: 567 words


For someone who was supposedly on the ropes only a month ago, Tony Blair has had
a spring in his step this week.

He is naturally resilient, one of his greatest strengths as a politician. Yet,
only a few weeks ago, he looked drawn and was beset by questions about how long
he would remain Prime Minister.

Much of this was nonsense but it still fuelled a "bunker mood", at least in the
Westminster/media world.

However, Mr Blair seems to have bounced back. In recent television interviews,
he has talked as if some of the pressures that were bearing down on him have
started to ease. His advisers hope that they can see a way through present
troubles to next year's general election -on Iraq, on the European constitution
(where a deal in a fortnight is seen as more likely than not) and then, in a few
weeks' time, the spending review and the five-year plans for public services.

Everything in politics is, of course, relative. No one in Mr Blair's inner
circle pretends that their troubles are over, either in Iraq, or at home. Far
from it.

Labour leaders still expect some pretty rough results in the mid-term elections
next Thursday, as traditional party supporters protest or abstain.

Nonetheless, there are some positive signs which account for Mr Blair's
chirpiness. From Iraq, the pictures of the abuse of Iraqi prisoners have been
replaced by coverage of the appointment of the new Iraqi Government and the
likely agreement on a United Nations resolution on the handover of sovereignty.

This is subject to further bargaining between America (and the factions within
the Bush Administration), Britain and the French-German-Russian group. There is
now a sense of a plan coming together, with the prospect of an elected
government in the country next year, even if few are optimistic about the next
few months. Iraq is going to remain violent for some time, and could get worse
this summer.

At home, Labour's Euro-pean election campaign has gone more smoothly than might
have been expected, though at times, more smoothly has seemed to mean semi-
invisible. But there is no disguising the relief in Downing Street at Michael
Howard's problems this week over the UK Independence Party boomlet and over the
fuel protests.

Perhaps most significant in boosting Mr Blair's morale has been something more
intangible. When he was most under fire, Mr Blair told advisers that the key was
confidence, knowing that when things are really bad, you keep your nerve: that
out "in the real world", the mood was more favourable.

His advisers report that, now, Mr Blair has got a boost on his campaign trips,
admittedly only three so far, and from the changed tone of interviews.

Acknowledging differences over Iraq, he apparently senses a greater readiness to
talk about domestic issues such as public services, which are of direct concern
to voters. He has found it easier to brush aside succession questions:
interviewers seem to assume that Mr Blair is, as he says, "up for the job" of a
third term.

Of course, these mood changes are a matter of fashion. The mini-revival in Mr
Blair's fortunes, and setbacks for Mr Howard, could easily be reversed if Labour
does very badly and the Tories do better than expected on June 10. There is
still a lot of apprehension in Downing Street about next week's elections -which
could trigger a fresh bout of speculation.


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              344 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

Positive Blair believes worst is behind him

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 580 words


TONY BLAIR admits that Iraq has cast a "shadow" over Labour's prospects at the
European and local elections next Thursday. He will, nonetheless, spend much of
the time left before polling day meeting right-of-centre leaders from the
coalition that went to war.

Today, he will hold talks at Chequers, his country residence, with John Howard,
the Australian Prime Minister. Tomorrow, he will head to Normandy for the 60th
anniversary of the D-Day landings where he will line up, as ever, alongside
President Bush. On Tuesday, Mr Blair flies to America for the G8 summit where he
will once again be associated with the Republican US President.

The military coalition in Iraq once also included Spain. But Jose Maria Aznar's
Government was rejected by voters. Mr Blair, Mr Bush and Mr Howard are now all
suffering varying degrees of unpopularity, apparently directly linked to the
war.

Some Labour MPs have even spoken about a "curse of Saddam" which could result in
electoral defeat for every coalition leader.

However, Mr Blair believes that the worst is now behind him. For the first time
in 18 months the Prime Minister feels that he is back in control of the agenda
instead of being merely at the mercy of events.

For a start, there is rising optimism that a UN resolution authorising the
transfer of power to an Iraqi-led administration on June 30 will be secured
within the next few days. Troops will remain but it will end the occupation and,
in the words of one adviser, "change the feel" of Iraq. A UN mandate will also
represent a tangible achievement of Britain's alliance with America in which Mr
Blair has consistently tried to steer Mr Bush towards multilateral solutions.

"We feel quite relaxed about the D-Day events," said a Downing Street aide
yesterday. "It will show the leaders of Britain, America and Australia, as well
as France and Germany, all together. This underlines the importance of Europe
and our special relationship with the US."

Nor are the European elections necessarily going to be the disaster for Labour
which was once expected. Ministers have not discovered mass hostility from
voters on the doorstep about Iraq except among the liberal middle class and
Muslims. In other areas they say support is holding up.

The rise of the UK Independence Party should dent the Tory vote while also
forcing Michael Howard to re-affirm the Euroscepticism which Labour hopes will
marginalise him at the next general election.

In the immediate aftermath of the European elections, the Government will be
engaged fully in the final talks over the proposed EU constitutional treaty.
Once again, Downing Street is confident that a deal can be done without crossing
the "red lines" drawn up to protect both Britain's national interest and
Labour's political priorities. "It will be very hard for our opponents to say
the sky has fallen in, we're going to be OK on this," said a minister last
night.

Iraq will remain a negative issue for Mr Blair who knows that the security
situation could deteriorate further even after the handover of power. There is
also concern over the publication this summer of Lord Butler of Brockwell's
inquiry into the use of intelligence material before the war.

This is likely to revive controversy over the claims about weapons of mass
destruction. But Mr Blair's aide said yesterday: "There is a more positive
feeling about things."

D-Day recalled, pages 5-9

Peter Riddell, page 18


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              345 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 5, 2004, Saturday

Disgraced Aitken joins UKIP supporters

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 205 words


JONATHAN AITKEN, the disgraced former Conservative Cabinet minister, yesterday
became the latest public figure to back the UK Independence Party.

Mr Aitken, who was jailed for perjury in 1999, says that he will vote for the
Eurosceptics in local and European elections on Thursday.

His decision comes three months after Michael Howard, the Tory leader, vetoed
his attempt to become a parliamentary candidate for the party.

Mr Aitken, who was on a cruise in Norway yesterday, joins a string of
celebrities and prominent Tories who have backed the UKIP campaign. Geoffrey
Boycott, the former England cricketer, joined their ranks yesterday, saying:
"Now is the time to stand up and be counted."

Mr Aitken told the Isle of Thanet Gazette: "I have been impressed by the UKIP
election campaign and I am convinced by their case for renegotiating Britain's
future relationship with the EU. So I shall vote for UKIP in next week's Euro
elections."

His support took UKIP officials by surprise and it was unclear whether the
former MP would be welcome as a member. A party spokesman said, however: "We
welcome his support. We are confident that thousands more Conservative Party
members will follow his example."


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              346 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 4, 2004

Why can't we stand on our own feet?

BYLINE: ANDREW ALEXANDER

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 841 words


WHAT a difference a week makes! Senior Tories were insisting only last week that
the United Kingdom Independence Party was unimportant, its support transitory,
its policies irrelevant and scarcely worth any journalist's time and effort. But
now Michael Howard has given way to the hotheads among his advisers and swung
round to full-frontal attacks, giving the UKIP a prominence and importance for
which it scarcely dared to hope.

Since he is emphasising the issue, one has to say that it is the Tories'
position on the EU which, in fact, invites ridicule. They list all the faults of
the EU, ranging from the harm it does us currently to the still graver damage it
threatens in the future - while adding emphatically: BUT WE WILL NOT LEAVE.

Why ever not? If things are as bad as they say, then we should be prepared to
pull out - unless we can get all these grievous errors remedied. Not only is
this logical, it is also the only sensible bargaining position.

Imagine that you are dealing with your employer and you say that the pay is too
low, the conditions at work unacceptable, the hours too onerous and your
contract indefensible. But then you add that in no circumstances will you leave
your job. Your employer would conclude you are a right mug, ripe for continued
exploitation.

The Conservatives like to insist that they will get all these grievous
conditions of membership removed (well, most of them) if they become the
government.

But Britain has been trying to get various of these ills remedied for nigh on 30
years. Far from making progress, the problems arising from our membership have
got worse.

How can we be sure that a future Tory government would do so much better?

Well, it says it would huff and puff and block Union business by constant use of
the veto - now available in fewer areas, one might add, since the John Major
government's various capitulations. Somehow, it doesn't ring true, does it?

The party has got itself into a real bind. The more it tries to take the wind
out of UKIP's sails by sharpening up its Euro-scepticism, the more ordinary
voters will conclude that leaving, or threatening to, is the obvious course.

And, of course, that is what UKIP offers.

CENTRAL Office has been firing up the contest's candidates - or so it thinks -
by dubbing UKIP a collection of 'Little Englanders' in a party 'full of cranks
and political gadflies'.

Also, runs the propaganda, it has candidates with links to the Far Right, and
its existing MEPs have a rotten voting record. Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael
Ancram, always the extreme moderate, describes UKIP as 'xenophobic'.

Well, I don't know about all that. It has been my luck or otherwise to know the
Tory Party quite intimately for more than 40 years.

In it, and sometimes near the top, I have come across not just cranks and
gadflies but also idlers, liars, cheats, fraudsters, turncoats, multiple
adulterers, cowards, boasters, xenophobes, knaves, sycophants, drunks, men
without principles and men ready to abandon principles, as well as individuals
with links to extremists.

I am not complaining, mind. All the main parties have their share of these.

It is in the nature of politics.

The point is merely that those in glass houses should be careful about where
they chuck their stones.

As for the abusive term 'Little Englanders', this must contend as the most
misused term in politics.

(Try asking anyone using the phrase what the origin of the term is - bet you
they don't know).

The position is this. Both the main parties insist that we must remain a
subordinate nation within the EU and accept some or all of its rules.

UKIP is a group which says that we are strong enough and wealthy enough to stand
on our own two feet and make our own laws. Who are the 'Little Englanders' in
any sense of the term?

The Conservatives may claim that they (though not all of them) want to reduce
the role of the EU in our affairs. But even if they were to succeed in all of
their aims - fat chance! - that would still leave Britain subordinate to the EU
across a wide range of issues.

The party is not remotely committed to removing the tens of thousands of
regulations, many silly and some preposterous, which have poured out from
Brussels over the years.

There is another piece of childish nonsense used in attacking UKIP members and
supporters. For example, in the Sunday Times, which should know better, the
argument has been used that Robert Kilroy-Silk's ownership of property in the EU
makes a mockery of his UKIP position.

Reasoning with people who think like this - and there are quite a few, alas - is
like trying to argue with a 12-year-old.

Speaking for myself, I love France.

But I do not wish to be ruled in any way by France. Got it? It's quite simple,
really. Just use the little grey cells.

Nor do I wish Britain to interfere in any of the EU members' affairs.

Does that amount, in the debased language of our times, to an 'extremist'
position?

END

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              347 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 04, 2004, Friday

Blair's EU constitution hopes rise Backing from Irish and Spanish leaders could
lead to quick deal at Brussels summit this month, says Toby Helm

BYLINE: By TOBY HELM

SECTION: News Pg. 06

LENGTH: 442 words

TONY BLAIR and fellow European leaders could reach a quick deal on the EU
constitution at a summit in Brussels this month after Britain won vital support
for defending vetoes over key areas of EU policy.

The new mood of optimism follows talks yesterday at Downing Street between Mr
Blair and Bertie Ahern, the Irish prime minister, whose government holds the EU
presidency and will chair the final summit negotiations.

Mr Blair also met Jose Luis Zapatero, the Spanish prime minister, for talks at
No 10 on the constitutional treaty as Madrid indicated its willingness to
compromise in a long-running row over its voting power in the Council of
Ministers.

Mr Zapatero, whose country, with Poland, blocked a deal last December, said:
"Our government's position is in favour of having a constitutional treaty this
month."

Government insiders said last night that, with the Irish also offering strong
support, Mr Blair had all but won his battles over Britain's so-called red line
issues. These include defending the veto over tax, foreign policy, defence and
social security and seeking guarantees to ensure that the charter of fundamental
rights will not create new legal rights.

"I think we can get a quick deal which all countries should be able to proclaim
as a victory," a Government source last night.

If there was a remaining obstacle, officials said, it was how to contrive a way
for all countries to present the deal as acceptable to their voters.

That could be a problem for France and Germany which had given ground to Britain
over the charter of fundamental rights and the veto. Government insiders said
the rise in support for the United Kingdom Independence Party and arguments
between it and the Tories over the EU had taken the heat off the Prime Minister
over the constitution and made it easier for him to announce a deal. Labour
strategists believe that the issue is now causing more damage to the Tories than
to the Government.

Diplomats concede that the talks on the constitution could run into difficulties
again, particularly as Poland's negotiating position remains difficult to gauge.
Since the recent resignation of Leszek Miller, the prime minister, there is no
functioning government in Warsaw.

Talks on the constitution broke down in December because of a row between Poland
and Spain on one side and France and Germany over their respective voting rights
in the enlarged EU.

In April Mr Blair promised a referendum on the constitution, having previously
argued that it did not involve fundamental change.

The constitutional treaty needs to be ratified by all 25 member states before it
can come into force.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              348 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 04, 2004, Friday

Howard 'is facing his own militant tendency in UKIP'

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow and Benedict Brogan

SECTION: News Pg. 12

LENGTH: 333 words

MICHAEL Howard has tried to appease anti-European Conservatives by pandering to
the "hardline Europhobes" of the United Kingdom Independence Party, Jack Straw
claimed yesterday.

The Foreign Secretary said Tory policy on Europe was "rapidly unravelling" under
pressure from UKIP, which he described as Mr Howard's "militant tendency".

In the 1980s Labour suffered years of turmoil as the leadership waged war
against Militant, a hard-Left faction that was eventually expelled.

UKIP is not part of the Conservative Party, but Mr Straw said many Tories
supported its policy of EU withdrawal.

His attack marked a concerted attempt by Labour to exploit a late surge by UKIP
in the polls, which suggest that it may take significant votes from the main
parties.

Mr Straw claimed 21 Tory frontbenchers, including David Davis, Liam Fox and
Oliver Letwin, have supported Conservatives Against a Federal Europe (Cafe), a
group that says Britain should withdraw from the EU if fundamental renegotiation
of membership terms proves impossible.

"Given the events of the last few days, it is hard to see UKIP as anything less
than Michael Howard's own militant tendency," he said.

Mr Howard sought to assert his authority last night by removing the party whip
from the Earl of Shrewsbury, a fifth Conservative peer who publicly endorsed
UKIP.

"It is not acceptable for someone who takes the Conservative whip to advise
voting for another party," a Tory spokesman said.

Mr Howard also challenged Tony Blair to disown Denis MacShane, the Europe
minister, for signing a declaration by European Socialists that calls for a
common EU immigration policy and for Britain to lose its seat on the United
Nations Security Council.

In a letter to the Prime Minister he said: "I presume you would not expect any
minister in your Government to sign anything unless he agreed with it. So can
you confirm that Mr MacShane was expressing the views of the Government? If not,
why is he still minister for Europe?"

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              349 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 04, 2004, Friday

Straw dodges flak over the war no one wants to talk about Is Iraq a poll
issue?Andrew Sparrow reports from the doorstep

BYLINE: BY ANDREW SPARROW

SECTION: News Pg. 12

LENGTH: 532 words

JACK STRAW is sitting in a railway carriage, heading to Bristol for an
afternoon's electioneering, and he wants to clear up misunderstandings about
Labour's campaign.

"Iraq is much less at the top of people's agenda than you would think from
reading the newspapers," says the Foreign Secretary.

"It's there. It's a shadow over the campaign. But, for most people, the issues
are straightforward issues about public services, schools, hospitals and crime."

An hour or so later, Mr Straw is on a former council estate in Kingswood, just
outside Bristol, where he has the chance to put his theory to the test.

He is "blitzing", a form of door-to-door campaigning which involves contacting
the maximum number of voters in the minimum amount of time.

And it's true. In a Labour ward, in a constituency with a Labour MP, Mr Straw
spends about half an hour on the stumps without a single person having a go at
him about Iraq.

Admittedly, Mr Straw only visits seven houses, most of the occupants are
committed Labour supporters selected by activists, and the level of political
debate is not exactly Newsnight.

"Any worries?" Mr Straw asks an old woman who comes to the door in her socks.
"Only old age," she replies, knowing that even New Labour will not promise a
solution to that.

Another pensioner invites Mr Straw inside to see her budgie, Robbie. He
cheerfully obliges. At another door, a man with a walking stick comes out waving
a postal vote. "What do I do with this?" he asks. Not wishing to be accused of
filling it in for him, Mr Straw soon backs away.

It is even worse next door. The occupant does not want to speak to Labour
because the party has just woken her up.

The only time Iraq gets mentioned is when the BBC's Michael Crick sticks his
microphone under the nose of one of Mr Straw's target voters and asks him about
the war. The man mutters something uncomplimentary but Mr Straw does not take
him up on the matter.

Labour seems to have been fighting a remarkably low-key campaign in the run-up
to June 10 and it is hard to believe that the Straw "blitz", which was combined
with a factory visit, will make much difference.

But, as Mr Straw inspects clumps of metal in a unit making parts for the
aerospace industry, Roger Berry, Kingswood's MP, insists that the campaign is
going well. "I've been out three times a day and I'm getting Labour supporters
who are still very strongly Labour," he says. "A couple of months ago, Iraq was
coming up from time to time. But it's very rare now. The question is whether we
can get our supporters to turn out to vote." Standing alongside him, Glyn Ford,
Labour's one MEP in the South-West, says Labour will "probably be close" to
holding its vote in the region.

The Tories have four seats in the South-West, and Labour, the Liberal Democrats
and the UK Independence Party one apiece. Mr Ford believes that if UKIP takes
enough votes from the Tories, under the vagaries of PR, Labour could end up
winning a second seat. After the factory visit, Mr Straw, Mr Berry and Mr Ford
troop outside, where the Foreign Secretary lines up for an interview with a
local television journalist.

And the first question? It's about Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              350 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 04, 2004, Friday

UKIP has got real

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 29

LENGTH: 229 words

SIR - Much of your leading article on the United Kingdom Independence Party
(June 2) made good sense, but when you ask why the UKIP should stand for
European Parliament elections when it wants to leave the European Union and when
the European Parliament would have no influence in achieving that aim, you fail
to convince.

Reasons for standing are obvious. Nobody takes seriously a political party that
cannot win representation in an assembly and our first-past-the-post system
ensures no domestic parliamentary representation for the views of a very large,
frustrated segment of the electorate in all the major political parties.
Participation in the European elections makes that electoral success possible
without which political extinction is inevitable.

Failure to stand for them would be interpreted as a lack of belief in the UKIP's
electoral appeal. Success demonstrates support for the principle of leaving the
European Union and renders ridiculous the claim by other political parties and
newspapers that there is no serious support for its position. Success gives some
credibility to and a platform for its campaign.

No European representation means no Newsnight interviews, no Question Time
appearances, no media coverage and no influence.

For the UKIP, not standing has to be a non-starter.

Gerald Hartup

Director, Liberty and Law

London W1

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              351 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 4, 2004

EXCLUSIVE: TORIES WILL PROMISE PARENTS AND PATIENTS MORE CHOICE; HOWARD TO START
HIS BLITZ

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 380 words


THE Conservatives plan a summer policy blitz after next week's elections to set
out their programme for government, Michael Howard said yesterday.

The party will focus first on health and education, the Tory leader told the
Daily Express. The move will come as a relief to critics who had expected the
party to wait until its autumn conference to announce its policy details.

Tory aides denied yesterday that earlier announcements were a response to
complaints of a "policy vacuum", saying they had always promised to follow up
the anti-Labour campaign for the June 10 local and European elections with a
drive to show the Tories as a positive alternative.

But Mr Howard yesterday made clear his determination to start carving out a
distinct Tory platform as soon as possible. He intends to set out how he would
give parents, pupils and patients more choice and control over services.

Success in next Thursday's elections would be viewed as an ideal springboard for
a drive to steal a march on Labour by setting out radical new policies.

But critics could paint it as a desperate bid to regain ground if the UK
Independence Party dents the Tory Euro-election vote. Mr Howard has already had
to withdraw the whip from Tory peers who urged people to vote UKIP, and he made
clear yesterday that any MP who did the same would also be disciplined.

But he denied that the resurgence of UKIP, which he has dubbed extremist for
wanting to leave the EU, had caught him off guard. He insisted he was focused on
boosting the number of Tories in the European Parliament, although he said that
with fewer seats up for grabs than last time it was a "demanding objective".

Tory former minister John Redwood has accused UKIP of splitting the eurosceptic
vote. Mr Howard told the Daily Express yesterday: "Eurosceptics should vote for
a party that will do the best for Britain in Europe, make real efforts to bring
power back from Brussels to Britain and that will be effective in the European
Parliament."

UKIP released YouGov poll figures yesterday that showed it had pushed Labour
into third place across London and southern Britain for next week's elections.
The Tories lead with 33 per cent, UKIP has 22, Labour 20, the Lib Dems 17, and
others are on eight.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              352 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 4, 2004

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 512 words


VETERAN news correspondents John Simpson and Jeremy Bowen are unlikely to be
pleased with the BBC's in-house magazine Ariel. The mag reveals that, while
reporting from foreign locations, the pair, er, sometimes haven't a clue what's
happening.

"Bowen admitted he started a report from North Korea for the Ten O'Clock News by
saying he didn't really know what was going on, " says Ariel. And the Beeb's
world affairs editor and self-appointed liberator of Kabul, Simpson, above,
apparently confided to Bowen: "There are times when saying 'I don't know what's
going on' is probably the most accurate thing you've said all day."

WHATEVER happened to sisterhood, ponders Hickey? William Hague's former press
secretary Amanda Platell has thrown in her twopenneth's worth regarding the
10-yearaffair between Sebastian Coe and Vanessa Lander. Instead of directing her
venom at Coe, who was then married and apparently paid his mistress to have an
abortion, Amanda has slated Lander's appearance. "Lander looks like something
that has just been voted off Big Brother, " bitches Amanda in the New Statesman.
"She and her pendulous breasts posed for the papers in baby pink, with a face as
dark as her neglected roots." Me-ow.

WITH the European elections and Euro 2004 round the corner, Lightning Seeds
frontman Ian Broudie has been recalling the success of the Euro '96 anthem Three
Lions, which he penned before joining Skinner and Baddiel on warbling duty.
"When the song first came out the Labour government tried to turn it into a
political anthem and I really disliked that, " says Ian, 45, right. "I support
the Green Party and won't be voting for anyone else - certainly not the UK
Independence Party, " he added at the Dunhill and Goodwood Festival of Speed
launch in London. "I don't reckon all of these so-called celebrities such as
Joan Collins will have any effect on the way people think or vote."

DIRECTOR Kevin Smith's latest film Jersey Girl has attracted negative publicity
but what of his next project? It will be The Green Hornet - a comic-book caper
about a millionaire newspaper publisher who turns into a masked crimefighter and
has a kung-fukicking chauffeur. Don't expect a chiselled A-list hunk to star. .
. Smith's fingers have been burned by casting the high-profile Ben Affleck,
Jennifer Lopez and Liv Tyler in Jersey Girl, who were all absent from the London
premiere.

"No, I won't be casting a big Hollywood name, " he tells Hickey. "It will
definitely be an unknown." Of Jersey Girl, he sighs: "Yes, the reviews in
America were dodgy and I expect the British ones to be similar - or, if
anything, worse. British critics are usually more cruel."

Surely not.

MADONNA, Hickey is intrigued to learn, has imposed a "swearing fine" on her
world tour, including the dancers and roadies. "Every time someone curses they
have to pay a fine, " reveals an insider. And Madge's New York spokeswoman Liz
Rosenberg confirms: "That's correct. By the way, Madonna has paid plenty
herself. I think it's $ 5 nearly GBP 3 a curse word."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              353 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 4, 2004

Elections June 2004: Kennedy's battle van negotiates tricky road to June 10

BYLINE: Patrick Barkham

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 799 words


For a leader still smarting from colleagues' criticism of his "student
lifestyle" of booze, cigarettes, late nights and irregular meals, being forced
to admire a pile of discarded crisp packets and empty Pot Noodle tubs in an old
tobacco warehouse might have been a punishment.

As he gazed at the rubbish on an election tour of Bristol and Cardiff - for
which local activists had arranged a tight schedule of trips to sustainable
development centres and recycling projects - Charles Kennedy could have been
forgiven for thinking as much.

But even West Country Lib Dems, who fondly remember the days of Paddy Ashdown,
are far too nice to drop their leader such an unkind hint.

They are also too nice to jump amber lights, which left the self-deprecating
Kennedy European elections tour, in a five-seat Citroen Berlingo rather than a
battlebus, running slightly behind schedule.

His aides insist Mr Kennedy likes nothing better than to throw himself into
meeting real people on "random" walkabouts, but in Bristol, the strategy of
letting activists set their leader's agenda for the day left little room for
such encounters.

When real people popped up, Mr Kennedy unglazed his expression. Collaring a man
in overalls working on a training scheme, he said: "I can't resist your set of
initials." The man with IDS sewn on his front, Tony Propert, insisted: "Those
aren't my initials . . . but good luck on the 10th."

Mr Kennedy had struck gold: Mr Propert not only knew when the European elections
were, but was also a Lib Dem voter. "I'm with the postal voting system and I
have voted Lib Dem for Europe," he said.

Mr Kennedy was happy to ad mit that the purpose of his campaigning was to
enthuse local activists and reach the local media. And so it was that visiting
shopping centres and kissing babies were eschewed for the essential component of
a 21st-century political walkabout: a visit to the local mosque.

For the first time, the serenity of Mr Kennedy's day out was destroyed, by three
members of George Galloway's Respect coalition, who stood outside Cardiff's
Madina mosque and insisted theirs was the only true anti-war party. "Mr Kennedy,
you have blood on your hands," shouted one. "Have you come to apologise for
murdering Muslims in Iraq?" shouted another. "You're a hypocrite, Mr Kennedy,"
shouted the third.

"There's no doubt that across all the election campaigns taking place, people
are deeply concerned over the situation in Iraq," the Lib Dem leader told 35
Muslims assembled in the quiet of the mosque.

"We as a political party were not supportive of the war and turning our backs on
the UN and the rest of the international community and aligning ourselves so
closely with the US.

"The European elections are a good way of sending a signal that we would like to
see Britain working more closely in Europe to act as a counter-weight to the
American policies in Iraq."

Some were not convinced. "They changed," said Munir Ashi. "They used to oppose
the war in Iraq but they said while our troops were there we will support them.
They should do the same as Spain; they should bring them back and stop them from
killing the Iraqis."

Mr Kennedy claims to be unconcerned by the rise of the UK Independence party,
with some polls putting the Liberal Democrats behind them, in fourth place. "The
absolute con sistent run of polls have shown us at a higher level of support
than we had before, and under the PR system we will do better.

"We are polling five or six points higher than we did in the last European
elections."

Graham Watson, the Lib Dem MEP for the South-West, who leads the Liberal group
in the European parliament, agrees.

"Charles is coming across well. He's fighting a good campaign and he's looking
fit," he said. "What appeals to the voters about Charles is the 'good bloke'
syndrome. David Steel and Paddy Ashdown were good leaders, but I don't think
voters felt standing at a bar having a drink with them would be fun.

"But voters can see themselves standing at a bar having a drink with Charles,"
he said. "Or chatting to him in the park," he hurriedly added.

Sipping a diet Coke on the train home, Mr Kennedy said he believed the
whisperings about his health and leadership were in the past.

"I'm absolutely fine," he said. "This party has stuck together remarkably well.
We've been through one crisis after another in the last few years - the fuel
protests, foot and mouth, September 11, Afghanistan, Iraq - all of an
unpredictable and unusual political nature that lend themselves to combustion in
each party. The fact that we've been united throughout this is a very good sign
for the future."

Polly Toynbee, page 23

Nick Clegg, page 24

guardian.co.uk/politics/ elections2004


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              354 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 4, 2004, Friday

LEADERS CLOSE TO DEAL' ON EU CONSTITUTION

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS AND STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Mr Zapatero: Preparing to
compromise on voting

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 566 words


EUROPE'S LEADERS are close to a deal on the vexed issue of the European Union's
proposed new constitution, ministers indicated last night.

Hopes of a breakthrough rose as Tony Blair met his Irish and Spanish
counterparts in London in the run-up to the crucial Brussels summit where the
future shape of the union will top the agenda.

The Government is battling to ensure extending EU power does not cross its
so-called "red lines", preserving Britain's veto on taxation, foreign policy and
social issues. But it is believed to be satisfied these non- negotiable areas
can be defended in the negotiations in Brussels on 17 and 18 July.

Crucially the new Spanish administration led by Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is
also preparing to compromise in a row over protecting its voting rights in the
expanded EU.

Mr Zapatero told a Downing Street press conference: "The Spanish government's
position is clearly in favour of having a constitutional treaty in the month of
June." The pre-summit horse-trading is being conducted by Bertie Ahern, the
Taoiseach, who is touring capitals as the current EU president. Five days ago he
said there was only a "50-50" chance of striking a deal by the end of the month.
But a Whitehall source said the mood had become more positive, particularly in
the light of the Spanish move. He said: "The atmosphere is more optimistic than
it has been for a long while."

A senior minister told The Independent that Europe's leaders were "moving in the
direction" of a deal. He said: "People have realised we need a nation-friendly
constitution. I don't think any of the British red lines are menaced."

A deal that secures the red lines would be a major domestic boost for Mr Blair,
helping Labour to counter Tory charges that the country's sovereignty is being
threatened.

Mr Ahern revealed last night that the constitution would contain no reference to
God or Christianity, an omission which will annoy the Italian and Polish
governments.

Meanwhile, there is no clear sign of progress on the other key issue at Brussels
- who will succeed Romano Prodi as president of the European Commission when he
steps down in October. With no clear consensual candidate emerging yet, Javier
Solana, the EU's foreign policy high representative, has surfaced as a possible
contender. A respected political heavyweight who navigated the Iraq crisis and
offended neither London nor Paris, he would be a strong compromise candidate
acceptable to most national capitals. However, because Mr Solana is a socialist
from a southern European country, he is not ideal for the job. Europe's
centre-right parties, which are expected to emerge as the biggest group after
the European elections, are demanding that the president comes from their ranks.
A northern European nation is expected to win the post because Italy held it
last time.

w Labour's support will slump to just 23 per cent in next week's European
elections, according to an opinion poll which also shows the UK Independence
Party breaking through into double figures. The survey, conducted by EOS Gallup
Europe, puts Labour narrowly in second place, just three per cent ahead of the
Liberal Democrats, on 20 per cent, with the Conservatives in the lead on 30 per
cent. The telephone poll of around 750 people, conducted between 5-22 May, puts
UKIP on 10 per cent with the Greens on 8 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              355 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 4, 2004, Friday

THIS ELECTION PROVES THAT POLITICIANS, WHATEVER THEIR FAULTS, AREN'T ALL THE
SAME

BYLINE: JOHANN HARI

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1156 words


Less than a week to go, and the nation is greeting a great moment of democratic
destiny - its chance to go to the European and local polls on 10 June - with a
monumental, almighty shrug of the shoulders. Are we discussing Europe,
immigration, or - a mad idea! - the country we just invaded (or the one we
invaded before that)? No; election coverage has been dominated by Robert
Kilroy-Silk and Joan Collins. To paraphrase Oscar Wilde, you know our politics
is in the gutter when all we do is look at faded stars.

A few days ago I was speaking to a smart single mum on a long train journey. She
could deliver an eloquent five-minute lecture on how the Working Families' Tax
Credit had changed her life. She marched against the war a year ago. She
believed the minimum wage should be increased. She had views and lots of them;
she was not apathetic. But when I asked her who she was planning to vote for in
the Euro-elections, she said, "Nobody. They're all the same." Really? From the
BNP to the Respect coalition?

At this election, British voters have more real choice than at any other time.
Euro-elections are determined by proportional representation, so the smaller
parties aren't merely protest votes any more. You can vote Green or UKIP and
expect your vote to actually translate into an elected representative. British
people are stuck at most elections with - effectively - a choice between two
parties, or at most three. This time, you're browsing through a packed political
supermarket, with a flavour for every conceivable taste. Don't tell me your vote
doesn't count - and don't lazily declare they are all corrupt without evidence.
So what are your options? I talked last week about the options on the right: the
creepy paranoia of UKIP, the racism of the BNP, and the Tory Party of Michael
Howard and Oliver "Let's cut public spending by pounds 135bn" Letwin. The
choices on the left are more tantalising: Labour, the Greens, the Liberal
Democrats and the Respect coalition.

I still think there's a good case for voting Labour. (Yes, I know that according
to the opinion polls it's only me and the Blair family who hold this mad view,
and even Cherie's probably wavering these days.) Thanks to Labour policies, we
now have the lowest unemployment for 30 years. Long-term youth unemployment is
now, incredibly, lower than 5,000 people.

Tory cynics jeer that this is due to the strength of the global economy - but
how come no other country locked into the same global trends has pulled it off?
No, it's due to a strong global economy and Labour policies.

Special credit goes to the New Deal and, especially, the Working Families' Tax
Credit, which tops up the wages of people at the bottom of the economic pile.
This makes it pay for them to come off benefits and into work. I should know -
half my family is on it. The Tories are pledged to abolish the New Deal and
slash the WFTC to ribbons.

But I understand why many people will find it impossible to cast a vote for
Labour this time. Many people object to the increasingly authoritarian
simple-mindedness of David Blunkett and, of course, the Iraq war.

In addition, the stakes seem low: it's not as if Michael Howard will end up in
Downing Street if you vote to kick Blair this time. So perhaps the obvious first
stop for those who are disgusted by the war is the Respect coalition, which has
evolved out of the Stop the War organising body.

I supported the war, so it's no surprise that I'm not voting for Respect. But I
am sure most opponents of the war - who sincerely opposed Saddam Hussein's
tyranny - will not vote Respect once they know who is involved.

The main planks of the movement are the Socialist Workers' Party (SWP) and the
Muslim Association of Britain (MAB). The SWP is a totalitarian organisation.
They called for Saddam to win the 1990-91 Gulf War, and their model society is
Lenin's Soviet Union.

The MAB is an Islamic fundamentalist off-shoot of the Egyptian Muslim
Brotherhood, which has blatantly misogynist and homophobic strands. A typical
Respect candidate is Yvonne Ridley, a former journalist, who describes the young
fundamentalists who went to fight in defence of the burqa-enforcing Taliban as
"heroic" and "principled". A vote for Respect is a vote for totalitarians in an
unconvincing left-wing costume.

So if you want to choose an anti-war party but can't stomach supporters of
Lenin, Saddam and the Taliban, where can you go?

The Liberal Democrats took a clear anti-war line - and they have some brave
policies for the local elections. They have breached the ultimate post-poll tax
political taboo and advocated reform of Britain's grotesquely regressive system
of local taxation.

The party wants to scrap council tax and replace it with a progressive system of
local income tax.

It's easy: under their scheme, the amount you pay in tax to your council would
be calculated according to your income, just as with income tax. The absurd
situation where I pay the same council tax as the deprived families round the
corner crammed five-into-a-flat would end.

This is a smart local policy for local elections - and it might just have an
impact. The Labour Government is reviewing local taxation; a strong Lib Dem vote
next week will give them the moral authority to lobby hard for their policy to
be adopted nationally.

If only they had a heavyweight leader like Menzies Campbell to communicate these
policies, the danger of the Lib Dems being overtaken by UKIP might be staved
off.

The other anti-war option is the Green Party. They already have two British
MEPs, Caroline Lucas and Jean Lambert, with a reputation for hard work in the
European Parliament. A Green vote is an opportunity to say that, whatever petty
obsessions dominate the day-to-day political agenda, at least some people
remember that our planet is slowly, lethally warming.

Some of their policies are a bit eccentric - for example, they seem to be
marketing themselves as more Eurosceptic than UKIP, a strange stance for a
progressive party.

But when it comes to demanding a swift transition away from burning poisonous
fossil fuels, the Greens are the only party who do not have an eccentric
position.

So remind me again why "they're all the same". Remind me again why you won't
bother to vote.

This weekend will be dominated by the anniversary of D-Day. Murdoch-empire
xenophobes will imply that the best way we can honour the generation who saved
the world from fascism 60 years ago is to kick against the European Union.

Vote for Eurosceptic parties, they will wail, or boycott the European elections
altogether.

In fact, what better tribute to those who died fighting Nazism than for all
Europe, united, free and at peace, to vote on the same day? And what greater
insult than to dismiss the democracy they died to defend and extend as boring
and empty?

j.hari@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              356 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 4, 2004, Friday

STRAW IN EU RALLYING CRY

SECTION: 2 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 107 words


FOREIGN Secretary Jack Straw yesterday pledged to keep Britain at the heart of
Europe - saying withdrawal would be a "disaster".

He said that the Tories' European policy was "rapidly unravelling" in the face
of the challenge from the UK Independence Party.

But Mr Straw, who was speaking in London ahead of next week's Euro elections,
also blasted UKIP for advocating a pull-out.

He said: "Let's be clear, withdrawal from the European Union would be an
unmitigated disaster.

"It would threaten British jobs, British businesses and British influence in the
world. It would put our future prosperity and security at risk."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              357 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 4, 2004

DO YOU, INFIDEL, TAKE THIS IMPERIALIST DOG...

BYLINE: Richard Littlejohn

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 617 words


THE Archbishop of Canterbury has given his blessing to the marriage of Prince
Charles and Camilla.

That's always presuming Charles wants to marry her. For all we know, he's more
than happy with their present arrangement.

You know what they say: Once bitten, twice shy. Camilla's already on tap.

Perhaps it suits his purpose to keep her guessing.

Who was it called second marriage a triumph of hope over experience? Ten years
of Lady Di's tantrums would give anyone pause for thought before taking the
plunge again.

And, anyway, why do we think Camilla is mad keen to tie the knot?

She's got a nice little number going as it is. Plenty of perks with none of the
aggravation.

No opening libraries, aimless waving, posing with Aids victims, small-talking
foreign dignitaries or attending interminable charity dinners.

She gets her picture taken every now and again, but if she ever became Princess
Camilla, Queen- designate, she wouldn't be able to pop her head out of the door
without a barrage of flashlights.

Plus, it was Jimmy Goldsmith who said that marrying your mistress creates a
vacancy. Why spoil things?

While the archbish has cleared the way for the nuptials, there's still a problem
over them getting married in church.

Given Charlie Boy's decision to style himself "Defender of Faith" he may figure
that walking down the aisle at the Abbey isn't inclusive enough.

I've been trying to imagine what, if it ever happens, the wedding would be like.

"The marriage took place yesterday of the Prince of Wales and Mrs Camilla Parker
Bowles at the Finsbury Park mosque. Imam Abu Hamza presiding.

"The bride looked resplendent in a purple sari. The prince wore a kilt and a
Rastafarian tea-cosy hat.

"Best man was Mr Jim Davidson, who had flown in from Dubai especially for the
occasion and was accompanied by a bevy of Page 3 stunnas.

"Matron of honour was the woman off Who Wants To Be A Millionaire who looks a
bit like Camilla. Bridesmaids Tara Palmer-Tomkinson, Geri Halliwell and Nancy
Dell'Olio all wore matching navel rings.

"The happy couple arrived at the mosque in The Sun bus, flanked by a masked
guard of honour provided by the Seven Sisters Martyrs Brigade.

"They were three-quarters of an hour late, due to resurfacing works on the
Holloway Road and the re-phasing of traffic lights in the Tufnell Park area.

"Ushers Ken Livingstone, mayor of London, Mr Mohamed Al Fayed, Ant and Dec and
Mr Andrew Parker Bowles showed guests into the mosque, where Mr Jools Holland
played the organ.

Guests included Her Majesty the Queen, Prince Philip, Sir Trevor McDonald, Miss
Kerry McFadden, Mr Gerry Adams, Mr Bob Geldof, Mr and Mrs David Beckham, Mr
Roman Abramovich, Mr Peter Mandelson and Reinaldo, the Hinduja brothers, Mr
Bernie Ecclestone, Mr Peter Foster and Miss Carole Caplin and the Tipton
Taliban.

"Princess Michael of Kent represented the colonies. The Saudi ambassador
represented Mr Osama bin Laden and Mr Michael Howard was represented by a member
of the UK Independence Party.

"Also present were Mr James Hewitt and Mr Gordon Ramsay, who provided the
catering (soon to be a major TV series). Big Ron Atkinson's invitation was
withdrawn.

"After calling for death to all Americans, Jews and other infidels, the imam
asked if anyone present knew of any good reason why the couple could not be
joined together in Holy Matrimony.

"At this point, Mr Al Fayed was helped out, foaming at the mouth, by a phoney
footman.

"After a reception at the Stroud Green Tandoori, Prince Charles and Princess
Camilla left for a honeymoon in the picturesque Tora Bora mountains, accompanied
by Mr Arthur Edwards."


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              358 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 4, 2004, Friday

Straw attacks Howard for 'panic' on Europe

BYLINE: Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 14

LENGTH: 476 words


JACK STRAW denounced Michael Howard for causing "chaos and panic" over Europe
yesterday as the local and European election campaign entered its final week.

The Foreign Secretary said that Mr Howard had made a strategic error in
encouraging and then attacking the Euro-scepticism of the UK Independence Party.

The result was that the Conservative leader had made his own credibility an
election issue.

In a speech at the Foreign Policy Centre, Mr Straw said that Mr Howard was
paying the electoral price for encouraging "an ideological opposition to the EU
which ten years ago was a minority and now forms the mainstream of today's
Conservative Party". Referring to Mr Howard's decision to attack the UKIP, which
favours withdrawal from the EU, as "extremist", Mr Straw said that the
fledgeling party was "Michael Howard's militant tendency".

He added: "He has been exposed on Europe...under pressure he has buckled."

Mr Straw later told The Times: "The remarkable thing about this election is,
seven days before polling day the big issue is Michael Howard and the UKIP. It
takes serious political skill -by which I mean error -to have got the Tory party
into that strategy."

A Conservative spokesman responded to the attack by comparing the two party
leaders' levels of activity in the election campaign. He said: "This shows how
desperate Labour have become. Jack Straw would be better advised trying to
persuade Tony Blair to actually campaign during these elections. Whereas Mr
Blair has been invisible in this campaign, Michael Howard has covered 7,931
miles."

Mr Straw was doing his bit for the European Parliament campaign yesterday as he
made a flying visit to an aerospace engineering firm and a housing estate in
Kingswood near Bristol. Labour has just one MEP out of a potential seven in the
South West.

At the headquarters of McBraida plc Mr Straw enthusiastically examined milling
machines and a range of small-jet-engine parts. Outside he switched back to the
national campaign for the waiting press. Mr Howard was trying to "whip up
protests" over fuel prices, he said. "If he thought he was going to be Prime
Minister he would run a mile from such irresponsible behaviour."

Residents in Tenniscourt Road, Kingswood, the Foreign Secretary's next port of
call, were in for a surprise in the afternoon if they answered the door. They
were greeted by the Foreign Secretary, their MP, their Labour MEP and about two
dozen party workers, journalists, cameramen and police.

From the brief evidence of his visit, Mr Straw might have thought the entire
country was voting Labour. Many had already voted by post and were mainly happy
to see him. "Is there anything you want to raise with me?" Mr Straw asked Muriel
Wilson, a pensioner. She had no complaints to make, and invited him in to meet
her budgerigar.


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              359 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 4, 2004, Friday

Blair stokes UKIP fire at own risk

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 14

LENGTH: 548 words


LABOUR is in danger of turning a tactical advantage into a strategic defeat.

Party leaders have seized on the UK Independence Party boomlet as a welcome and
unexpected diversion from what promised to be a dire mid-term election campaign.

Instead of being on the defensive, Labour has turned the tables to go on the
offensive against the Conservatives.

So it has been Michael Howard who has been discomfited and criticised, not least
after his initially maladroit handling of questions about possible fuel price
protests.

Much of this will blow over, especially if the Tories make big gains in the
local elections. But Mr Howard could have an awkward time if the UKIP wins more
than, say, half a dozen seats in the European elections. The significance of
such gains will be vastly exaggerated. But there will be further rumblings on
the Europhobe right and calls for changes in Mr Howard's team.

Yet Labour leaders should not celebrate too much. If the short-term victims of a
UKIP advance are Mr Howard's Tories, the most serious long-term casualty could
be the Blair Government's European policy. Indeed, Labour leaders are at least
partly responsible for the UKIP bubble.

Ever since 1997, ministers have failed to make a consistent case for Britain's
close involvement in the European Union. Instead, we have had two approaches.

First, Tony Blair and a few other ministers have made occasional big "pro"
speeches, saying that Britain's destiny lies in Europe. But these speeches have
seldom been followed up and any impact has quickly faded.

Secondly, ministers, notably Gordon Brown, have highlighted serious flaws and
problems in the structure of EU economies, while arguing for further
liberalisation and reform. These points are correct, but the overall impression
is negative, especially when you add in the failure of the proeuro campaign.

The Government has fuelled this anti-EU mood by its continual talk of "red
lines" in the negotiations about a European constitution. However legitimate
these reservations are, the impact has again been negative.

The Tories' own shift in a Eurosceptic direction -the "live and let live"
approach and the call for renegotiation of EU policies such as fisheries -has
worked in the UKIP's favour, despite Mr Howard's insistence that Britain will
remain in the EU. Labour and the UKIP both argue that the Tory policy of
renegotiation will not work since no other EU country will agree, and that this
will inevitably open up the whole in/out question.

Labour wants to frame the European debate in such stark terms since it believes
voters would again back continued membership when faced with the risk of job
losses and loss of foreign investment. Yet the danger is that, by stoking the
UKIP fire in order to undermine Tory hopes in the June 10 elections, the
Government risks strengthening the anti-EU cause before any referendum on a
European constitution. Ministers have been so busy this week attacking Mr Howard
and the UKIP that they have almost entirely failed to make the positive case for
Europe.

They are not going to win this argument by default. Attacking the Tories and the
UKIP may help Labour next week, but not in the longer-term strategic debate over
Britain's place in Europe.


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              360 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 4, 2004, Friday

Let's shut down the Tony and Michael show

BYLINE: Neil Clark

SECTION: Features; 26

LENGTH: 634 words


Something rather strange and wonderful is happening in our green and pleasant
land. For the first time in almost a quarter of a century politics in Britain
has become interesting.

The reason for this sudden transformation of our public life owes nothing to the
mesmerising talents of Tony Blair or Michael Howard. But it does owe much to the
voting system under which next week's European elections are to be held.

Proportional representation has traditionally received the kind of press in
Britain usually reserved for contagious diseases or Arab dictators with
moustaches. But in the light of the reinvigoration of our body politic by
parties such as the Greens, the UK Independence Party and Respect, it is surely
time for those Luddites who still oppose electoral reform to reconsider their
position.

On issues such as Britain's relationship with the European Union, the extent of
future immigration, the war on Iraq, and the environment, we are at last
witnessing some intelligent, grown-up debate. And we are doing so because
instead of just two parties setting the agenda, we now have six or seven. The
smaller parties know that every vote cast for them next week will count in their
quest to send representatives to Strasbourg. And voters know, too, that not a
single one of their crosses will be wasted.

Contrast this happy situation with the next general election, when millions will
vote for a party that they don't particularly like because the in-built
iniquities of our electoral system mean that the party they prefer has no chance
of winning a seat. Faced with the new, PR-induced threats to their
long-protected positions, the Big Two predictably have fallen back on labelling
the smaller parties "extremist": the Greens are a ragbag of well-meaning but
unrealistic cranks; the Respect Coalition unreconstructed Baathists; the UKIP
neofascists; and the British National Party just fascists.

ADMITTEDLY, the BNP's restriction of its membership to white Europeans and calls
for an immediate ban on all further immigration are extreme. But so, it can be
argued, are many of the policies of the Big Two, not least their enthusiasm for
launching illegal wars of aggression against sovereign states. What really irks
the Labour and Tory leaders is that, for once in their lives, the British
electorate has got something approaching a proper, democratic choice.

Whether you are turned on by the anti-war rhetoric of George Galloway, the
religious emphasis of the Christian People's Alliance, the Greens' opposition to
genetically modified foods, or the Euroscepticism of Robert Kilroy-Silk, there
will be something for you to vote for on Thursday. Make the most of it, because
a year or so from now, thanks to good old first-past-the-post, we will be back
to the Tony and Michael Show.

Of course, proportional representation has its faults. The type of PR used in
next week's election -the party list system -undoubtedly gives party bigwigs too
much power to decide who goes where on the list, and deprives voters of the
opportunity to express preferences for individual candidates. Voters in the
South East planning to register their opposition to the Iraq war by voting
Liberal Democrat, for example, will be helping to guarantee the re-election of
Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, No 2 on the party list and a strong
supporter of "shock and awe".

But the fact remains that if we are serious about providing voters with a
meaningful choice, then introducing some form of proportional representation for
general elections is essential.

The duopoly has long extolled the benefits of competition in the economic
sphere.

It is time that they applied their philosophy in the political sphere too.

Neil Clark is a journalist and tutor of politics


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              361 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 3, 2004

Please, better manners, thanks

BYLINE: KEITH WATERHOUSE

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 667 words


NEW book hopes to do for politeness what the Lynne Truss runaway bestseller
Eats, Shoots & Leaves did for punctuation.

With the less catchy title of Yes Please, Thanks, Penny Palmano's book aims at
teaching our children good manners. As I recall, this used to be achieved by a
swift clip over the ear, but I suppose we have moved on.

It is certainly true that today's monstrous regiment of 'kids' are not
overblessed with the basic social skills. In her opening chapter, How To Behave
In Public, Ms Palmano lays down some of the ground rules: don't talk with your
mouth full, say please and thank you, no playing with the salt and pepper, no
elbows on the table and so on.

All of which was taken as read in our household, although I could never
understand what was so heinous about putting one's elbows on the table, which
seemed to me as good a parking spot for elbows as any. It was not as if we were
about to put our feet on the table, but there we are.

Why do children need to be reminded - if they ever knew in the first place-that
they shouldn't charge through the restaurant playing chuffer-trains and making a
thundering nuisance of themselves?

It goes back, I imagine, to the let-it-all-hangout Sixties and Seventies, when
for reasons now forgotten self expression was the name of the game.

Parents who were themselves allowed to run around as the little horrors they
were now allow their own little horrors to run around, without it crossing their
beaming faces that they may be spoiling someone else's enjoyment. Mine, usually.

A frequent complaint is that many English restaurants are hostile to children.
They have much to be hostile about. So many diners treat the place as if it were
a creche, where as well as serving the paying customers the waiters have the
additional chore of entertaining their offspring and stuffing them with
breadsticks.

TO RESTAURANTS we may add pubs. Allowing 'kids' into pubs was a great mistake.
There is nothing for a child to do in a pub, once it has topped up on Coke and
crisps, except get under everyone's feet. 'If you don't like kiddies, you
shouldn't come in here,' an aggressive mum once informed me as I tried to detach
sticky fingers from my sleeve. To which the only reply was, had I but courage to
deliver it: 'Madam, I've been using this pub since you couldn't get through the
door unless you were 18 or over.' The problem is that so many parents believe it
is someone else's task to control their children. Waiters. Teachers.

Transport staff. It all goes back to the welfare state, I suppose.

In the street where I grew up, not only mums and dads, not to mention
grandparents, were responsible for the children's behaviour, but a whole raft of
adults assumed a surrogate parental role - teachers, neighbours, council
officials, all had ear-clipping rights.

I don't say we raised our caps to every old lady we helped across the road, but
we were certainly better behaved than some of the guttersnipes I see today.

But I still can't understand why I wasn't allowed to put my elbows on the table.

Indies

I FEEL that Michael Howard is making a great mistake in being so patronising
towards the United Kingdom Independence Party.

A UKIP vote may be a lost vote but it is not a wasted vote.

It tells the mainstream politicians what they have never wanted to hear - that
we have had it up to here with railroading and gerrymandering, not to mention
their mind-boggling ineptitude.

Writing in the Guardian yesterday, Polly Toynbee says that Howard 'could have
made the UKIP look like the pathetic little rump of neo-fascist populist
opportunists they are'.

How very European. How very arrogant. How very Pollyesque.

As it happens, I shan't be voting for anybody, since in the election for the
European Parliament I don't want to vote for Party A or Party B but for person A
or person B.

But if the UKIP should turn out to be Party A it would not come as much of a
surprise.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              362 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 3, 2004

Europe is an issue we just can't ignore

BYLINE: JOHN MACLEOD

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1200 words


VIVIDLY do I recall the first direct elections to the European Parliament. It
was in June 1979 and it deserves a footnote in psephological history because it
was the last election in Scotland won by the Conservative Party, taking five of
the eight enormous seats.

We were on holiday in Lewis that month, staying with my grandmother.

She was nearly 80 and had a very bad heart. Polling day was vile driving wind,
curtaining rain but she insisted on paying her dues to democracy. We drove her
to the village school and she waddled in, slowly, to mark her cross.

My grandmother was of a generation who had grown up amid gross Edwardian
inequality, the Great War and the virtual serfdom of herringgutting and domestic
service. She could remember when women could not vote, and I have never
forgotten that dignified old lady exercising her franchise on that coarse,
Hebridean day.

Most of the country didn't bother.

Only 33.6 per cent of Scots turned out to vote for the European Parliament in
1979. The figure dropped again in 1984, rallied to a remarkably high 40.8 per
cent in 1989 (an election remembered for the very high Green Party vote) and
plunged five years later into the abyss.

Five years ago, drained by repeated elections and a double referendum, less than
a quarter of Scots went to the European polls.

There is little sign that next Thursday's election will do much better. This is
a great pity because it is shaping up to be a very interesting contest.

Admittedly, the European Parliament has very little actual power. Most of the
aspects of Europe that annoy us are decided by faceless bureaucrats and the
serious political decisions are made by the Council of Ministers half-summit,
half-junket and held in secret. Nor, since the glorious Winnie Ewing hung up her
hat, are our MEPs exactly household names. I wouldn't know Catherine Stihler if
she tried to sell me a bridie.

Well, it ought to engage us and, if there was one thing that really impelled my
grandmother to vote that long-ago, soggy summer day, it was the grim awareness
of how not once but twice all the certainties of her world had perished because
Europeans had most violently gone to war to settle issues a good deal more
brutal than the price of Welsh lamb.

Every village war memorial, every D-Day veteran on our musing documentaries,
every forgotten, unknown great-uncle forever 19, forever 1940 is a savage
reminder that, however we feel about Europe, entire disengagement from its
affairs is no longer an intelligent or morally legitimate option for the United
Kingdom.

AS for those who cannot be troubled to vote next Thursday well, what do they do
but whine, with Neville Chamberlain, of quarrels 'in a faraway country between
people of whom we know nothing'?

Nevertheless, as William Whitelaw once deliciously put it, our politicians are
presently running around the country stirring up apathy, in what is fast
descending into the theatre of the absurd.

Take the debacle unfolding in certain English regions, where the Government has
insisted on an 'experiment' compulsory postal voting. By an odd coincidence, all
the counties identified are Labour Party strongholds.

Happily for the gaiety of nations, the man entrusted with this dubious
enterprise in democracy is Charlie Falconer, the Lord Chancellor. His only
qualification for office is that he is an old friend of Tony Blair.

Like many old chums of Tony Blair, in 1997 he was able to change his first name
to 'Lord'.

He has swept to his present eminence on the basis of such glittering triumphs as
the Millennium Dome, and as everything goes wrong gloriously, horribly wrong in
Labour's English heartland one trusts this portly nonentity will shortly be
swept from obscurity into oblivion.

Then there is the darkness of the British National Party. It offers us nothing
but the politics of hate. Because of its racist venom, and its Neanderthal
activists, many of our fellow citizens must daily confront prejudice,
intimidation and fear.

We are too complacent about racism in Scotland it is a much wider reality than
sectarianism but, happily, the inchoate resentment and thuggery on which the BNP
feeds so fatly in England is absorbed largely by Tommy Sheridan's Socialists.

The Conservative Party has a thing about European elections. The poll in 1989
was the first election Mrs Thatcher ever lost, and the beginning of her end.

In 2000, the Tories did rather well. In 2004, the Conservatives are visibly
shaken by the remarkable prowess of the UK Independence Party.

The UKIP is not 'extreme'.

Nor does it seek to withdraw us from what we actually voted for on the only
occasion our rulers deigned to ask us about Europe in the 1975 Referendum.

The UKIP wants to restore us to the simplicity of a common market a free trade
agreement, quite sufficient to render infinitesimal the risk of another European
war.

This is a seductive platform, all the more so when the European Union becomes
more of a monster each passing year and the Common Market such a farce that
Norway which isn't even a member can dump cheap, farmed salmon on us with
seeming impunity at the great peril of many West Highland jobs.

THE Tories are making a bad fist of countering the UKIP, which now leads the
LibDems in the polls.

But perhaps the saddest sight in this election is that of the SNP.

The Nationalists have always done very well in the European poll but all the
signs are that they are going to do badly this time. All the party's wind and
rhetoric only serves to remind us how far a oncegreat movement is now drifting
remorselessly away from its founding vision.

For a start, the so- called National party has developed an almost Freudian
obsession with fishing. Something is seriously wrong when a political party's
manifesto is skewed so defiantly towards the interests of a region where it is
already dominant.

Even worse, it ignores two plain realities the appalling conservation record of
our North- East fishermen and the fear and loathing in which they are held on
other Scottish coasts, such as the Western Isles.

But the SNP has quite lost the ability to think policy through in the Western
Isles, for instance, local Nats enthusiastically demand 'road equivalent tariff
' on our ferry crossings, quite oblivious to the fact that cheaper ferry tickets
would just about bury the local retail economy.

The Nats have so lost the plot that the SNP has now become little more than an
end in itself a brand serving only to maintain in lucrative public office a few
dozen people elected only because they had SNP next to their name.

One very senior Nat told me last year, with no evident sense of absurdity, that
their goal was to 'replace Labour as Scotland's dominant party'.

Well, I never: I always thought it was about winning independence. I feel gutted
for John Swinney, who was handed an appalling deck of cards by his predecessor
and has done his decent best in gruelling circumstances and over increasingly
impossible people.

Anyway, do vote next Thursday. No doubt, like many others, you will think Tory
and vote UKIP.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              363 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 03, 2004, Thursday

Howard stands firm against reshuffle

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political CorrespondentBy Paul Stokes

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 1295 words

MICHAEL Howard is resisting pressure for a post-election reshuffle of his shadow
cabinet amid fears among senior Tories that the party is rapidly losing momentum
in the run-up to next week's local and European elections.

The Conservative leader is understood to have ruled out a purge of his 12-strong
team despite claims that uncertainties over key areas of policy have left the
party looking hesitant and uncertain.

A late surge by the United Kingdom Independence Party, along with complaints
from MPs that Tory Central Office has been slow in delivering campaign material,
has provoked mutterings from nervous MPs.

They have been left uneasy by an internal row over party policy on health and
education, and a series of apparent gaffes on tax and spending by Oliver Letwin,
the shadow chancellor.

Mr Howard wants to retain the 36 seats held by Tories in the European parliament
and to lead his party back to strength in the English urban areas from which it
was ejected in the 1980s and 1990s.

But with evidence that a significant numbers of Tory voters are preparing to
back the UKIP in the Euro-elections next Thursday, and no signs of an overall
improvement for the party in the polls, MPs worry that the Conservative
resurgence under Mr Howard is running out of steam.

His advisers insist that the UKIP threat to the Tories has been "overblown", and
that local canvas returns suggest support is "rock solid" and the party can do
better than expected in the local elections.

They say he is refusing to be distracted from his strategy of waiting until
after polling day to unveil policies designed to show the Tories are a credible
alternative government.

But some senior frontbenchers with close links to Mr Howard are calling for
"rigorous performance assessment" of the six key shadow cabinet members: Michael
Ancram, Mr Letwin, Tim Yeo, Theresa May, Caroline Spelman and David Davis.

Mr Yeo, the shadow health and education secretary, is under pressure to sort out
party policy on giving parents and patients greater choice in education and
health after being told by MPs that the proposals were unworkable.

And Mr Letwin, who has been under fire since announcing the Tories would slow
public spending if they returned to power, was forced by colleagues to postpone
announcing further details amid fears the policy had given Labour a useful
propaganda tool.

Mr Howard, who told colleagues several weeks ago that he feared that his
honeymoon as Iain Duncan Smith's successor had gone on too long, has accepted
privately that if the party does not do well on June 10 it has a problem.

But he has made clear he will not be distracted by nervousness among his MPs. He
is understood to have ruled out sackings from the shadow cabinet, despite
rumours that Mr Yeo, Mr Letwin and Liam Fox, the party chairman, should be
considered as potential fall-guys for the party's lack of progress.  THE postal
ballots introduced in the north of England for next week's European and local
elections have left many people pondering over more than just the candidate they
favour. The Daily Telegraph took soundings yesterday on how the system was being
received.

In one, a cross-section of voters was presented with an election pack sent out
by Kirklees metropolitan council for the Yorkshire and the Humber Region and the
Colne Valley council ward. It includes a 2ft-long sheet bearing the names of 52
candidates under 10 party headings for the European elections, 14 candidates for
the local elections and a declaration of identity.

In another, residents were also casting votes for the Ancoats and Clayton ward
of Manchester city council and the North West region's MEPs.

Claire Lisman, 21, has personal experience of voter apathy after becoming
president of Huddersfield University students' union last year by a majority of
six after three recounts. From an electorate of 17,000, only 1,200 votes were
cast through the ballot boxes around the campus.

Miss Lisman, a theatre and media studies graduate, spent two minutes and 15
seconds perusing the papers for the election pack. She correctly followed all
the procedures to the point of placing envelope A inside envelope B, but
believed the instructions could have been more clearly expressed.

Miss Lisman, from Pickering, North Yorks, said: "It will save some people going
to find a polling station - the election will come to them and they won't have
to do a lot.

"The bad thing is it isn't particularly easy to understand. There is the worry
of getting it wrong. If you don't do something by the book, your vote won't
count."

May Fussey, 66, took 15 minutes to negotiate the forms - the same time it took
for her to find her spectacles before she could start.

She admitted that she could not be bothered to read the material when it first
arrived through the letter box of her guest house. But she was spurred into
action by her husband Ted and memories of her schooldays when it was impressed
upon her that people had fought to get the vote. She has exercised her right in
every election without problems since she reached the then legal voting age of
21. This time, however, she admitted some confusion.

She was concerned that she did not carry out the recommended check that the
declaration of identity and back of the ballot paper bore bar codes and whether
a spouse could act as a witness.

Mrs Fussey, from Marsden, near Huddersfield, said: "I prefer to go to the
polling station and vote. I'm a bit of a traditionalist and I think it's easier.
It's reading all the instructions that is the problem, but I have always thought
it is important to vote."

William Meehan, 26, a postgraduate biology student, has previously cast his vote
at polling stations and wonders whether the postal system is harder to follow.

He spent two minutes and 15 seconds reading the three-page instructions leaflet
at a corner table in Huddersfield University students' union. As he glanced down
two columns of candidates, he had the impression that he had only one vote in
the election for the European Parliament and one for the local authority.

Asked to look again, he realised the one vote restriction applied only to the
European contest while he could select up to three council candidates.

Mr Meehan, from Liverpool, has exercised his right to vote in most elections
since he was 18, but does not believe this to be representative of his
generation.

"One of the problems is people either don't register or just don't bother to
vote," he said.

"The fact you're getting something through the post might spark enough interest
for them to do something.

"I'm not sure whether the postal system is easier, but it's a nice idea
combining the local and European elections: that way some people might vote in
the council elections."

Susan Towler took just under 10 minutes to fill out the voting form. The
58-year-old secretary from Great Harwood, near Bolton, Greater Manchester, said:
"I just looked at the form and thought what a waste of time and paper.

"I have never missed a vote and wasn't going to start now, but when all that
bumf came through I just threw it to one side.

"All this carry-on is just ridiculous. I just don't understand what is wrong
with polling stations. It was so easy to go along and vote. In my village alone
there were four different venues."

Bill Reilly, 64, took just four minutes to fill in the form. The part-time
barman from Beswick, Greater Manchester, said: "It doesn't take any longer than
that from the moment you open it to the time you are licking the envelopes with
the forms in.

"It is easy as pie, but I still think it is a load of rubbish and a stupid idea.
To start with I just threw it on the table because I just thought it looked like
junk mail."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              364 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 03, 2004, Thursday

Joanie, how could you do this to me?

BYLINE: By Boris Johnson

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 22

LENGTH: 931 words

B-b-but Joanie, I thought, whimpering like a whipped cur, what have I done to
deserve this? It falls to every man to receive his share of humiliation at the
hands of the female sex. But never, surely, has an innocent wooer been requited
with such a deafening slap on the cheek.

To say that I have fawned on Joan Collins is to do an injustice to the Amoco
Cadiz quantities of top grade oil I have lavished on Britain's foremost female
film star.

Years ago I interviewed her for this newspaper. I laid it on with a trowel, and
of course she deserved it. They asked me to review her novel Too Damn Famous. I
pronounced it little short of superb. As our relationship bloomed, I was
privileged to publish her excellent diaries in the pages of The Spectator. When
there was some mix-up, and we had to hold her piece over for a week, I sent her
a bunch of flowers roughly the size and shape of an armchair.

Fool that I was, I came to think there was a bond between us. I imagined that
she was my ideological soulmate. And so you can imagine my pleasure when the
Evening Standard rang a few weeks ago, and told me that Joan was backing the
Tories - yes, the Tories. She was particularly impressed by Michael Howard, they
said. Did I have anything to do with it, the Standard wanted to know, and I am
afraid to say that I preened. I of course denied that I could in any way have
influenced her decision, but my vanity allowed me to hope that I did.

Fool, fool, fool! As you will now have seen from the news, Joan Collins is not
backing the Conservatives at the Euroelections. Here I am, vice-chairman of the
Conservative Party, having spent nigh on 10 years sucking up to Joan Collins,
and what do I get? At this critical moment, just when the Blair Government is on
the ropes, just when the Tories at last have the wind in their sails - what does
she do? She chucks me over for UKIP. She has succumbed to the charms of Robert
Kilroy-Silk, he of the Aztec chiselled chin and the skin the colour of
marmalade.

Oi! Joanie! No! What can I do? It is probably bad tactics, as a reject, to
attack the successful suitor; and I can hardly condemn UKIP as a bunch of
boss-eyed, foam-flecked Euro-hysterics, when I have been sometimes not far short
of boss-eyed foam-flecked hysteria myself.

With only days until the polls on June 10, I could engage in an abject attempt
to persuade Joanie to change her mind. I might for instance point out that even
at the Euro-elections, a vote for UKIP is damaging to British interests. I sit
on European Standing Committee B, which is a bit like being a member of the old
Soviet duma. Whatever piece of nonsense has been dreamt up by Brussels, you just
nod it through. The sad truth is that as a member of European Standing Committee
B I have far less influence on the laws of this country than has a member of the
European Parliament. In so far as they can be diverted from wassail in the
restaurants of Strasbourg, those MEPs can make a difference to the texts that
are imposed on us. They can amend. They can delay. They can sometimes speak up
for common sense. I could appeal to Joanie, in 11th-hour despair, and ask her
whether she really thinks it right to reduce the quotient of commonsensical
Tories, and send instead to Strasbourg a group of UKIP-istes who are so hardline
Euro-sceptic that they refuse even to take part in the debates, so leaving the
field to the federalist maniacs.

But even as I write these words, I know that it won't work, not in the short
term. We are talking of a big British movie star. She was cast in the lead roles
in both The Stud and The Bitch. She was also someone called Alexis Carrington in
Dynasty. She is no pushover, and she certainly can't be seen to change her mind
on a whim, and I don't expect her to do so.

I just beg you, Joan, in the course of the next year, to think of the appalling
consequences of reducing the Tory vote at the next general election; because for
better or worse there is only one party capable of expelling Labour from office,
and reclaiming the government of this country for a moderate, sensible and
pragmatic Euro-sceptic policy. You are right: there is too much regulation from
Brussels. It is nuts for the EU institutions to keep churning this stuff out,
when the continent is suffering from severe and chronic difficulties in
generating jobs and growth. We need a government that will speak up for
minimalism in Brussels.

We need a government that will deploy the veto, and that won't let EU
institutions intrude, for instance, into the field of criminal justice. We need
a government that will reject the latest treaty until it genuinely devolves
power back to national parliaments and people, rather than clustering more in
the centre. There is a huge chance to begin reshaping Europe, which already
looks very different from the old tightly drawn federalist construction of 12
countries.

We need a flexible, multi-speed Europe that gives us all the benefits we want,
of cooperation, free trade, free establishment, free movement, but does not mean
trying to make a single country of 25. That's what you want, darling Joanie. So
why on earth are you taking a step that could - if repeated at a general
election - damage the Tory chances of creating just such a government? All I can
say is that I hope you may find it in you to change your mind. Your fans will
live in hope. We will cross our fingers. And against that day we will prepare a
bunch of flowers the size of a... the size of a small car.

Boris Johnson is MP for Henley and Editor of The Spectator

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              365 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 03, 2004, Thursday

UKIP flies the flag (after a fashion)

BYLINE: Edited by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 23

LENGTH: 128 words

The UK Independence Party's campaign for next week's European election
-masterminded by former Clinton aide Dick Morris and publicist Max Clifford -
has been much praised for its professionalism.

But it doesn't get everything right. Ulster Unionist MP David Burnside calls Spy
to point out an embarrassing error in the party's advertisement in yesterday's
Daily Telegraph.

"I think you'll find they've got their Union flag upside down," says Burnside
succinctly.

Over to UKIP's press officer, who gamely attempts to make the best of the error:
"It was evidently a mistake by our advertising agency," he says. "However, given
the threat that the EU poses to our future as a sovereign nation, flying the
Union flag upside down actually seems quite appropriate."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              366 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 3, 2004

LABOUR'S EUSECRET

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 148 words


A MINISTER has signed Britain up to a blueprint for yet greater integration with
Europe, Michael Howard said yesterday.

The Tory leader seized on a European Socialist Party policy document "quietly"
signed by Europe Minister Denis MacShane earlier this year, which called for
Europe to "enter a new period of closer cooperation between its member states".

It also said there should ultimately be single EU seats on different
international organisations - suspected by the Tories to include Britain giving
up its UN Security Council seat.

Mr Howard said it showed Labour's true agenda for Europe, adding: "Before the
British people have even had their say on the constitution, Labour have
committed Britain to further integration with Europe."

Labour said the Tories were trying to divert attention from the election threat
they faced from the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              367 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 3, 2004

Silky smooth: Kilroy was here ... and planning to stay: On the EU campaign trail
with UKIPs celebrity hopeful

BYLINE: Sarah Hall and Julian Glover

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 803 words


It is every politician's dilemma: what do you do when approached by a Big Issue
seller? If you're Robert Kilroy-Silk you refuse to buy the magazine but
autograph it so he can sell it for twice the price.

Yesterday lunchtime, a minor deity prowled Nottingham's less affluent shopping
streets. "It's Kilroy!" shouted a small boy, star-struck at seeing his favourite
daytime TV presenter. "You're just as handsome in the flesh as on the telly,"
beamed a middle-aged lady, as he gave her a hug. "You should be back on the
telly," cried a second.

Shoppers stopped, waved and took photos of themselves with him with their mobile
phones. The staff of a building society rushed to the window while teenage girls
flung themselves in his arms and squealed with excitement. Grasping his hand and
beaming into his craggy, still-handsome face, their constant refrain was: "We
miss you."

"Kilroy" was once a Labour MP and then, for 18 years, the host of the eponymous
BBC show. All that changed last year, when he was sacked for making racist
comments in his Sunday Express column. Now he is standing for the UK
Independence party (UKIP), at the top of its list of East Midlands candidates in
next week's European Union elections.

If his reception yesterday and the polls - which put UKIP's vote support at up
to 18% - are anything to go by, he should coast into a job in Brussels. But if
he is elected it will be less because of his passionate calls for withdrawal
from the EU - "the most important issue of our generation. This is about getting
our country back from Brussels" - than because people love a celebrity.

"You know who to vote for now, don't you?" he asks Julie Healey, a flattered
nursery nurse who had been enjoying a Pret A Manger sandwich until he squeezed
on to a bench alongside her. "I shall come back and thump you if not. Spread the
message."

Mr Kilroy-Silk says he is aware that many are backing him because of "my
so-called celebrity" but insists there is a "hardcore" who agree with him.
"There is a huge Eurosceptic movement throughout the country."

What attracts people is his depiction of himself as a plain-speaker, telling the
truth denied by a "metropolitan political elite" - and it is here that his
language smacks of xenophobia.

Not that he is explicit. The UKIP website depicts people from Algeria, Egypt and
Turkey pouring into a Britain with "standing room only" but Mr Kilroy-Silk is
far too shrewd to express such views.

He tells the Guardian that his take on immigration differs from UKIP's all-out
opposition - "If they fill particular jobs they will be very welcome," he says -
and he is careful to ensure he is photographed with lots of smiling black
people, though he insists this is just coincidence.

Crouching next to an elderly Asian woman and her friends sitting in the
sunshine, he tells them: "Wherever we come from, whatever our race, we're
British and we're proud of it. The London political elite don't let us speak our
minds but we're proud of our culture."

Yet he does not convince everyone. A Nottingham-born man whose family moved from
Jamaica, heckles: "It's a farce that's taking place. Kilroy's offering British
nationalism. He's masquerading as a white crusader but he's a racist."

Later, Faizan Tariq, a British Asian student, goes up to him and shakes his
hand: "You are the BNP with a smiling face. Congratulations." Jan, Mr
Kilroy-Silk's wife, swats away the comments, telling her husband's heckler:
"You're stupid".

But while 62-year-old Mr Kilroy-Silk may insist he does not want votes from the
BNP, UKIP is taking them. In Southend the previous night, Marion Steers, a
former Tory voter who is concerned about immigration, told the UKIP candidate
for the local council: "I didn't used to be a racialist but I am now. If there
was a BNP candidate, I'd vote for them. I know that is a bit extreme but I think
people need to show the government."

Peter O'Kane, a former Lab-our councillor and deputy head who joined UKIP after
searching the internet for a party that reflects his views, is clearly
uncomfortable.

"I'm not a Little Englander. I'm from Northern Ireland, but you have to listen
to this stuff. If he is elected, it will be because of his campaigning against
the local airport expansion as much as a desire for EU withdrawal."

Back in Nottingham, Mr Kilroy-Silk heads for his chauffeur-driven Jaguar,
plastered with stickers and drives on to meet fishermen in Boston, Lincolnshire.

In a week's time, the destination could be Brussels. But does he have any
intention of going there? "I'm not going to be bogged down by the European
parliament. I'll spend as little time there as possible".

Howard fights UKIP risk, page 9

John Denham, page 26

guardian.co.uk/politics/ elections2004


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              368 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 3, 2004

Elections June 2004: Howard struggles to defuse UKIP rebellion: Tories say
Labour is willing to give up security council seat to EU

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 592 words


The Conservatives attempted to shift the focus away from their divided
Eurosceptic stance last night by accusing Labour of secretly plotting to abolish
Britain's seat on the UN security council in favour of a single seat for the
whole EU.

The claim received short shrift from ministers, who countered that the Tories
were seriously compromised by their links with the UK Independence party and its
agenda for complete withdrawal from the EU.

Both sides have identified Europe as a crucial motivating force if people are to
vote on June 10 in Super Thursday's multiple ballots. But they have also
concluded that the threat on the right next week is not - as widely predicted -
the BNP, but the UKIP.

The Tories appear most at risk and yesterday a fifth Tory peer, the Earl of
Shrewsbury, announced that he will vote UKIP on June 10.

The split may give the UKIP 10 seats instead of three, and help save Tony
Blair's bacon as he fights to restore confidence in his premiership.

Yesterday, as Michael Howard again insisted that he stands between the rival
"extremism" of the UKIP and Tony Blair over Europe, Tory HQ unearthed a "policy
declaration" drawn up by the European Socialist party and signed on Labour's
behalf by the Europe minister, Denis MacShane.

According to the Tory interpretation, the declaration reveals a covert Labour
commitment that would see "single EU seats in different international
organisations" which the document suggests means "primarily" the IMF, World
Bank, World Trade Organisation and International Labour Organisation. But
because it contains a reference to giving the UN itself "the political,
institutional and financial capacity" to fulfil its agenda, the Tories claim
that the proposed convention on UN reform would lead to a combined EU seat on
the security council. Britain and France have repeatedly said they will not give
up their seats. Germany wants its own.

Mr MacShane, who lacks the authority to sign declarations which Downing Street
has not vetted, yesterday dismissed the declaration as no more than aspirations
by policymakers at the EU parliament in Brussels.

Labour did its best yesterday to keep the spotlight firmly on the Tory dilemma
over how best to handle the UKIP's challenge as the "real" Eurosceptic party.
Following a hesitant answer by Mr Howard on Radio 4's Today, Jack Straw, the
foreign secretary, listed several Tory MPs - including former leader Iain Duncan
Smith - who had voiced UKIP-style sentiments. The Tory leader had told Today
that "no Conservative MP has said anything like what you're suggesting they
think" about pulling out of Europe. Frontbencher John Bercow, Mr Duncan Smith,
Bill Cash and the veteran Sir Teddy Taylor had all voiced that option, Mr Straw
said, and eight parliamentary candidates were avowedly pro-withdrawal.

Peter Hain, Peter Mandelson and other senior Labour figures also argued
yesterday that Mr Howard was paying the price for years of Eurosceptic rhetoric,
which is deeply embedded within his party.

On Labour estimates, up to 21 current Tory frontbenchers are members of
Conservatives Against a Federal Europe (Cafe) and have signed up to a withdrawal
agenda.

Mr Howard himself says he has long advocated a permissive "live and let live"
model for EU development. "We want to remain in the European Union but we want
to change its course, we want to change its direction and we think that more
powers that are now decided centrally in Europe should be decided at national
level," he said yesterday.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              369 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 739 words


No sex, please - and let's be terribly English about it

VIn a textbook case of life imitating art, Julian Fellowes has been forced to
extricate himself from a tricky personal situation that could have come straight
out of his hit film Gosford Park. The Oscar-winning screenwriter revealed this
week that a close friend of his wife Emma, attempted to proposition him during a
recent car journey from Dorset to London.

Speaking at the Hay-on-Wye literary festival, Fellowes caused jaws to hit the
floor when he told how the unnamed woman came to stay at his country home in
February, after her own marriage had fallen apart.

"When she got there, she discovered I was driving to London that evening, and
asked if she could have a lift back," he said. "Then, when we were in the car,
she just made a pass at me, which I just thought was really bad manners."

Ever the gent, Fellowes didn't dump her on the roadside. "We were on the M3 by
then, so options were limited," he explained.

Yesterday, Fellowes claimed to have put the incident behind him. "We're English,
and the English pretend these things didn't happen. I've seen the woman again
and didn't mention it. I know I am not in the least attractive."

Meanwhile, his wife (pictured) - a lady-in-waiting to Princess Michael of Kent -
said forgivingly: "It has made absolutely no difference to my friendship with
the person concerned."

Mind your language, Gordon

VGORDON RAMSAY's grandest venture is his eponymous restaurant at Claridge's. So
he may be troubled to hear that John Williams - the Maitre Chef de Cuisine at
the Mayfair hotel - has criticised his reality TV show, Hell's Kitchen.

"I wouldn't run a kitchen like that," Williams tells Pandora. "And I don't think
it's all put on for the cameras. Gordon works along similar lines in his own
kitchens. But why does he want people to be terrified all the time?

"His reputation is basically founded on his original restaurant. But now he
can't possibly be there very much, because he's got so many others."

Williams is in charge of all the food at Claridge's, outside of Ramsay's dining
room. But (perhaps understandably, given his sentiments) he's moving on: "I'm
just about to go to the Ritz," he adds.

The good old days

VLIKE MANY an old stager, Alexei Sayle (left) believes the younger generation is
neglecting his artistic legacy. Writing in this week's Time Out, he grumbles
that "political comedy could not be more out of fashion."

"The advances my generation made, particularly in rolling back sexism, have been
partly dismantled by the instinctive misogyny of many younger comedians
desperate to make it using any means possible," he says.

Comics Sayle does admire include Mark Steel, Mark Thomas, Jeremy Hardy and
Robert Newman. "I'm sure there are others, but my Bentley's been in for repair
so I haven't been going to many political gigs lately," he quips.

Something fishy

VMOST POLITICIANS are hard at work on the campaign trail, but - true to form -
the UK Independence Party is doing things its own way. Their MEP Nigel Farage
cleared his diary yesterday, to go bream fishing.

"It's a lovely day, and I'm sat on the bank with my son during half term week,"
he said. "We've had a couple of bass and about 15 bream. It's magic. The EU
haven't got their claws into the freshwater fish stocks, but they will one day."

Farage was just about to tell me that his party had recruited another decrepit
old celebrity supporter - the talkshow host, and 1960s icon Simon Dee - when he
was forced to hang up, after his boy hooked a big 'un.

VA week shy of London's Mayoral elections, Ken Livingstone (right) has
ducked-out of a TV debate with his main rivals.

Wisely perhaps, he refused to appear on Richard Littlejohn's Sky News show last
night, opposite Steve Norris and Simon Hughes. Labour also banned Ken's deputy
Nicky Gavron from taking his place. "We put in a request for Ken a couple of
months back, and that's been followed up by regular phone calls," says a Sky
spokesman. "We were finally informed last week that he wouldn't be coming on and
that no one else from Labour could make it either."

At time of going to print, Sky planned to exact revenge: "We've decided to use a
life-size cardboard cut-out of Ken instead," I'm told.

Only time will tell if this proves a help or hindrance to his campaign.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              370 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

EUROSCEPTICS LIKELY TO GAIN FROM VOTER APATHY IN EU ELECTION

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 1174 words


CONFRONTED BY alarming levels of apathy and a rising tide of Euroscepticism,
Europe's politicians yesterday launched a desperate attempt to persuade voters
to take part in the world's largest transnational election.

The president of the European Parliament, Pat Cox, issued an appeal for people
to vote in elections to the Strasbourg assembly to be held in two weeks' time,
arguing: "If Europe is to work it needs more of the fresh air of democracy."

The leader of the Party of European Socialists and former Danish premier, Poul
Nyrup Rasmussen, even urged voters to cast their ballots as a mark of respect to
the dead of the Second World War, adding: "The soldiers who died for democracy
did not have such choices."

Although the EU has just celebrated its expansion and the European Parliament
has more powers than ever, MEPs are bracing themselves for results which may
call into question their legitimacy.

Between 10 and 13 June no fewer than 350 million voters in 25 nations will be
asked to elect 732 representatives to the European Parliament. Not even a field
of candidates boasting Oscar and Nobel prize-winners, a brace of astronauts,
several television presenters and a former porn star, seems enough to stir
Europe's voters from their lethargy.

According to a Gallup poll, less than half of those entitled to vote are certain
to do so. Britain, where turnout was just 24 per cent in 1999, is expected to
perform better because of the wider use of postal ballots and because the vote
will coincide with local elections.

But some of the countries which recently decided by referendum to join the EU
appear to have had their fill of the voting booth, while turnout will fall in
several of the older member states. Only 27 per cent of Slovakians, 26 per cent
of Estonians and one in five Czechs say they are certain to cast a ballot.

Overall, 45 per cent of EU citizens say they will definitely go to the polls
though, if those who say they are "virtually certain" to turn up are added in,
turnout could creep over the psychologically important 50 per cent mark. Were
that to happen it would mark the first rise in turnout since direct elections to
the parliament began in 1979.

Even then, many who do turn out will vote to increase the Eurosceptic
contingent. Jens Peter Bonde, the veteran Danish Eurosceptic MEP, said: "We are
talking about more than doubling the Eurosceptic influence in the parliament.
There will be a completely new situation if the opinion polls are right."

Mr Bonde, whose leads a group of 18 MEPs, will hope to double its size with an
influx from the new member states, particularly Poland, where the anti-EU Self
Defence Party led by Andrez Lepper is expected to score well. The centre-right
bloc may also recruit more sceptics.

Boosted by the high-profile candidature of the former TV presenter Robert
Kilroy-Silk and the endorsement of the film star Joan Collins, the UK
Independence Party - which wants to take Britain out of the EU - is likely to
win more than 10 per cent of the vote and double its contingent of three MEPs.

However Richard Corbett, constitutional affairs spokes-man for the Socialist
group, argues: "Bonde's group is a mixture. Bonde does not want his country to
leave the Union; UKIP want to take Britain out; the Poles want a better deal for
their agricultural sector. There are different agendas and no uniform view."

Academics are predicting that the centre-right will emerge as the biggest group,
with 285 MEPs, followed by the Socialists with 217 and the Liberals with 73. But
calculations are complicated by the entry of new countries, and the anticipated
realignment of the political blocs after the elections.

The Parliament has done itself few favours by spurning Mr Cox's efforts to clean
up its notoriously lax expenses regime. Meanwhile an Austrian MEP, Hans-Peter
Martin, sent shock waves through the German-speaking world with his revelation
that around 200 MEPs are claiming generous attendance allowances for days when
they are not working. But most people are likely to vote on domestic issues and
many will take the opportunity to punish unpopular national governments.

That means that, though the results may not be good for the reputation of the
European Parliament, they could be worse for many of Europe's prime ministers.

THE HOPEFUL MEPS

CARMEN KASS The supermodel Kass, 25, has star quality but no political
experience. Standing for Estonia's conservative Res Publica party, she wants to
give something back to her country

JENS PETER BONDE Veteran Danish Eurosceptic who senses the tide is turning in
his direction. Will hope to co-ordinate a bigger Eurosceptic bloc in the new
parliament and fight the EU constitution

KATERINA BOCHNICKOVA A former porn star, also known as Dolly Buster. Her party
in the Czech Republic used to be known as the Independent Erotic Initiative -
though now it has dropped the "erotic" bit

MARTIN SCHULZ The German socialist MEP who was likened by Silvio Berlusconi to a
Nazi concentration camp commandant. He could emerge as the leader of the
socialist group

Vladimir Remek His role in a 1978 Soyuz mission makes him the only Czech
cosmonaut and the first non-Russian or non-American in space. A 55-year-old
former diplomat, he plans to focus on trade policy

ANDRZEJ WAJDA Poland's most famous living film director and winner of an
honorary Oscar in 2000 was elected to the Polish parliament in 1989 for the
Solidarity party

ARI VATANEN The former rally driver is standing for re-election, aiming to prove
his Euro credentials by seeking to represent a region in the south of France,
where he lives, rather than his native Finland

GRAHAM WATSON Leader of the Liberal group in the European Parliament and leading
advocate of civil liberties. His group wants to swell its ranks and take a
pivotal role in the parliament

LILLI GRUBER Among the best-known Italian television presenters, she left the
state broadcaster Rai this year in protest at media control by the Prime
Minister, Silvio Berlusconi

ROBERT KILROY-SILK, the former TV host and Labour MP, fired by the BBC after
making derogatory remarks about Arabs. Celebrity signing for the UK Independence
Party, which wants Britain out of EU

DANIEL COHN-BENDIT Once known as Danny the Red, the former student rebel is the
dominant force in the Green Party and among the most pro- European candidates.
He is standing for a German list

HANS-GERT PoTTERING Leader of the German Christian Democrats, Mr Pottering was a
centre-right force in the outgoing parliament, and could be president of the
next one

HANS-PETER MARTIN Austrian MEP and former investigative journalist running on a
"clean-up Strasbourg" ticket. Made enemies by filming MEPs signing for EUR262
attendance allowances, then leaving

GLENYS KINNOCK Britain's best-known MEP has long made the transition from wife
of the former Labour leader to politician in her own right. Renowned for not
always toeing the party line

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              371 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

COMPULSORY POSTAL VOTING IS A SHAMEFUL EXERCISE IN ELECTORAL MANIPULATION

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1162 words


It is a puzzle. Why is Tony Blair so keen on the "experiment" of forcing a third
of the electorate to vote by post in next week's European Parliament elections?
Yesterday, the Government missed the legal deadline for getting ballot papers to
a tiny proportion of those entitled to them. Ministers must be hoping that the
traditional pragmatism of the English courts will save them from this technical
breach in the letter of the law - nobody will be prevented from voting by the
delay, and it allegedly only affected 1 per cent of those taking part in the
all-postal voting schemes.

Most judges would, quite rightly, wave away a legal challenge over such a
trivial matter. But it is a symptom of something more important. For reasons
that are not immediately obvious, the Government has pushed ahead with what it
calls "pilot" schemes for all-postal voting on a scale that has little support.
Once anybody starts blaming the printers, you know that they are trying to do
too much, too fast, and have not got their act together.

The more you look at the origins of this experiment, the more suspect the
Government's motives seem. And I say that as a resolute believer in random error
as the driver of politics rather than conspiracy theory.

Most people, of course, did not follow the day-by-day arguments in Westminster
over the European Parliamentary and Local Elections (Pilots) Bill. Most of the
14 million people concerned, indeed, had no idea that they would be voting by
post in next week's elections until the ballot papers started dropping through
their letterboxes - or there were items on the news about why they weren't.

But now that we look back on the way the four regions were selected, the mystery
deepens. Back in March this year, while the Prime Minister was on a round trip
to Madrid, Tripoli and Brussels that caught the public eye, there was a
remarkable struggle going on between the House of Commons and the Lords. It was
one of those great legislative tussles that is usually mis-described as
parliamentary "ping-pong", as if it were a mere procedural distraction.

The minister concerned described it as "an almost unprecedented constitutional
situation", but hardly anyone took any notice, because the two houses seemed to
be arguing about the details of a scheme for trying out postal voting. Did
someone say dull? We never found out: unless you fell asleep in front of the
parliamentary channel and woke up at the right time and stayed watching, a
triple hypothetical, you would not have known about it.

But if you go back and look up the Hansard record now, you will still not find
out why the Government was so keen to run the experiment in four regions rather
than the two recommended by the independent Electoral Commission. All you will
find is Christopher Leslie, the junior minister for constitutional affairs,
explaining that the Government wanted four and, while the Commission was
entitled to advise, it was for the Government, and ultimately the House of
Commons, to decide.

Now Leslie is no rogue element. He is not like Peter Hain, for example, who
seems to regard his ministerial position as a platform from which to set out a
subtly different programme from the Government's. When Tony Blair surveyed the
ranks of new Labour MPs in 1997, he asked a colleague, "Isn't that the chap who
used to do the photocopying in Gordon's office?" It was: at 24, Christopher
Leslie, former assistant to the Shadow Chancellor, was the new MP for Shipley.
Leslie is on the inside of New Labour, a ministerial junior to Charlie Falconer,
the Prime Minister's most trusted member of the Cabinet.

So when the House of Lords five times rejected Leslie's Bill, and Leslie five
times whipped the Commons into sending the Bill back to the Lords until finally
getting his way, this was no junior minister pursuing a whim. The Prime Minister
wanted all-postal voting in four regions, and next week he gets it. Why?

The most obvious reason is that all-postal voting increases turnout. When
all-postal schemes were tried in 59 local council elections last year, turnout
rose from 34 per cent to 49 per cent. There are two reasons why this matters
next week. The first is that the four regions concerned - the north-west,
north-east, Yorkshire and the Humber and East Midlands - are strong Labour
territory.

The Iraq war has demotivated the activist base and offended much middle- class
support. Those Labour supporters who are more interested in the NHS and schools
would go to the polls in a general election to defend the Government, but it is
difficult to get them to the polling station for European elections. Five years
ago a mere 23 per cent of the electorate turned out to vote -and when the few
votes cast were counted, Labour trailed William Hague's unpopular Tory party by
28 per cent to 36 per cent (the UK Independence Party won 7 per cent).

Hence the deployment of every device: "We have ways of making you vote." In many
parts of the country, local council elections have been moved to be on the same
day as the European elections (five years ago, many people were asked to vote
twice in two months). In London, the mayoral elections will bring people out
because people do care about public transport and the congestion charge. But in
the four regions chosen for the pilots, there are few council elections, and so
the "experiment" coincides neatly with the Government's desire to encourage more
people to vote.

The Government's motive is not, of course, entirely squalid. But it is
disingenuous in the extreme to describe what is happening next week as an
experiment. It is manipulation, and should be condemned as such - otherwise why
was it necessary to overrule the independent Electoral Commission?

Postal voting is already freely available. The only motive for forcing people to
vote by post can be to produce a different outcome from that which would
otherwise have occurred.

Nor is this simply a matter of inflating the Labour vote, reprehensible though
that is. I believe that there is a deeper motive. I think Tony Blair was deeply
affected by the low turnout in the 2001 general election and in recent council
and by-elections. He realises how damaging it is to the grand rhetorical claims
on which he built New Labour. They were all about turning the party outwards and
engaging a disillusioned people in politics.

On a more personal-historical level, it does not fit his self-image as the
author of national renewal to have built his monuments on the foundations of
cynicism and apathy. That is another reason why he will not mind if Ukip does
well - apart from the fact that most of Ukip's votes will come from the
Conservatives. Unfortunately, there cannot be a worse cure for the civic
irresponsibility of abstention than the belief that the Prime Minister's amour
propre depends on as many people as possible next week casting their vote.

j.rentoul@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              372 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

WHY DOES KEN LIVINGSTONE BOTHER WITH LABOUR?

BYLINE: MARK STEEL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 837 words


During the last election for the mayor of London the Labour Party had a
wonderfully surreal attitude towards Ken Livingstone, which was "Why are you all
voting for him, you idiots, can't you see he's unelectable?"

For years Tony Blair declared that Livingstone's association with Labour cost
them thousands of votes. So Livingstone left Labour and got four times as many
votes as the Labour candidate. Now he seems likely to win again, except that, as
he's back in the Labour Party, Blair's association with him is costing
Livingstone thousands of votes.

Even the Tories have worked this out, which is why their candidate Steven Norris
has declared himself against the war in Iraq, and refers to Livingstone as
"Blair's mayor". In effect, this means the Tories are complaining about
Livingstone from the left. Norris will turn up to Livingstone meetings wearing a
bright baggy woollen jumper and rings through his eyebrows, yelling: "Yeah like
you big up the people but you hang out with Blair, you're down with the
corporate shit, man."

It's an interesting tactic, to campaign on principles opposite to those your
party was set up for. If a majority of the country starts supporting the
European Union, maybe the UK Independence Party will say: "If there's one thing
we've never supported it's UK independence."

Norris is more truly Conservative when he proposes to abolish the congestion
charge, as opponents of this charge base their opposition on arguments such as:
"He's put all that money into extra buses that most of the time are half-empty."
Perhaps they think public transport should be run by those lads in charge of the
dodgems at a fairground. You get in but it doesn't move off until there are
enough people for it to be worthwhile switching the power on.

Norris's claims to be the radical candidate are also slightly compromised by the
fact he's on the board of Jarvis, the despised company in charge of the
maintenance for the Underground. Maybe it's a rule in this election that every
candidate has to join a discredited organisation, and this week Simon Hughes
will announce he's been signed to play in goal for Leeds United.

Even the Liberal Democrat claim to be the anti-war party is misleading, as they
adopted the peculiar philosophical position of being anti-war until there was a
war. The justification for this was that once the war had begun, it wouldn't be
fair on our soldiers to oppose the war as they couldn't do their job without
public backing. But apart from anything else is this right? If you're driving a
tank and you're about to send off a metal-shredding missile, do you start
twitching, and muttering "I'm not sure I can because there was this letter in
The Independent"? And Jenny Tongue was sacked from the Liberal front bench for
saying she could understand the mentality that led to suicide bombing. So
presumably, the correct Liberal response to any question on the Middle East
should be: "I don't understand what's going on. It's a bloody powder-keg, I know
that much."

Jenny Tongue was also told her statement was a "green light to terrorists". What
a quaint idea, that Hamas suicide bombers are sat in a basement, uncertain what
strategy to follow, listening to a short-wave radio. Then suddenly one jumps up
and cries, "An obscure Liberal Democrat MP understands us - strap me up with
explosives baby."

How do New Labour politicians explain how there can be an election in which
every major candidate has to try and make themselves seem more fervently
anti-war than the rest? The anti-war Respect coalition may appear to have made
only a limited impact, but it seems every other party has eagerly copied its
platform. For a laugh, Respect should announce it plans to bring back
bear-baiting, and see if all the other parties go "perhaps they're on to
something," and copy that as well.

Certainly, Labour's only hope to win the vote for mayor was by re-admitting the
anti-war Livingstone, and allowing him to appear distant from Blair. If he wins,
Blair may have to follow a similar tactic. At the general election he'll say:
"You may think Ken Livingstone doesn't like me but he only has to meet me a
couple of times a week. I spend all day with me so imagine how sick I make me.
To give Blair a bloody nose vote Blair."

So why has Livingstone rejoined Labour? This is the party that didn't just expel
him, it vilified him with absurd abuse, such as the claim that his plans for
buses would cost every Londoner pounds 1,200. Perhaps Blair was getting his
information from the same source that told him about the weapons of mass
destruction. Somewhere was a report that, within 45 minutes of getting elected,
Livingstone would gold-plate a fleet of 133s to Streatham garage.

But as well as pride, why rejoin a party that is becoming more disliked each
day, and which he opposes on every fundamental issue. It would be like joining
the National Association of Paedophiles and announcing: "But don't worry, I
can't stand paedophiles."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              373 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: UKIP EXTREMISM

BYLINE: AIDAN RANKIN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 271 words


Sir: Johann Hari's attack on the UK Independence Party, and my role in it (26
May) contained a number of half-truths. It is true that I contributed to the
UKIP manifesto in 2001. When I did so, I insisted that the party define itself
as inclusive and appeal to the interests of ethnic minorities, as individuals
and as British citizens. I also, regrettably, found myself the object of
homophobic criticism within UKIP, both for personal reasons and because of my
support for gay rights.

It is also true that several years ago (1997-8), I wrote a number of articles
for Third Way magazine. These articles, however, were concerned with the
protection of indigenous minority populations from racial prejudice and cultural
imperialism. At that time it seemed to me that the Third Way group were
interested in exploring alternatives both to free-market fundamentalism and
patronising forms of "political correctness". I have never supported any concept
of racial separatism and would like to take the opportunity to disassociate
myself unequivocally from any such life- denying irrationality.

I have long accepted that writing for Third Way was a mistake, and I have moved
on from those articles at a political, intellectual and personal level. In that
sense, I am grateful to Johann Hari for reminding me of how wrong I was. But I
would like him to recognise that I have moved on. I have not had any contact
with UKIP since 2001.

Indeed my experience of Third Way - and UKIP - have reminded me of the value of
moderation and the dangers inherent in extreme positions of any kind.

AIDAN RANKIN

London WC1

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              374 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

TWO NEW PEERS FOR UKIP BID

BYLINE: ROSA PRINCE

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 142 words

HIGHLIGHT: SWITCH: Baroness


THE UK Independence Party won two more high-profile converts last night - one a
Tory peer.

The Earl of Shrewsbury, 51, and crossbench peer Baroness Strange added their
names to a letter by four rebel Tory Lords urging voters to back the UKIP.

The earl now faces being kicked out of the Tories.

Baroness Strange, 76, quit the party under William Hague.

On Saturday Tory leader Michael Howard removed the party whip from the four
peers behind the letter. They claim other Conservatives will follow their lead.

Mr Howard blundered on Radio 4 yesterday by claiming no Tory MPs had advocated
pulling out of Europe.

But he could not say they did not privately back withdrawal.

Labour MPs hit back with a list of top Tories who have demanded Britain leaves
the EU.

And Tory MP Richard Shepherd hinted he and others may defect.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              375 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

ANOTHER TOP TORY BACKS EURO PULL0UT

BYLINE: ROSA PRINCE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 179 words

HIGHLIGHT: QUIT: Strange


THE UK Independence Party claimed two more high-profile scalps last night -
including a Conservative peer.

The Earl of Shrewsbury, 51, nowfaces being kicked out of the party over his
defection, which he signalled by adding his name to a letter written by four
fellow peers who are backing the UKIP. He was joined by Baroness Strange, 76, a
cross bencher who quit the Tories under Hague.

The first four Conservative peers had the whip removed by Michael Howard on
Saturday over their backing for the UKIP. They wrote an open letter urging
voters to sign up to the anti-Europe cause. The peers claim many more Tories are
poised to follow their lead.

Mr Howard made an astonishing gaffe on Radio 4 yesterday by insisting none of
his MPs had advocated quitting Europe - although he could not promise they did
not privately back withdrawal. Labour MPs pounced on his words by publishing a
list of leading Tories who have publicly demanded Britain leave the EU.

And one Tory MP, Richard Shepherd, hinted he and other backbenchers may be
tempted to defect.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              376 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

Livingstone set for easy re-election

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 845 words


Ken Livingstone is heading for a comfortable re-election as the Mayor of London
on June 10 thanks to divisions among his main rivals' supporters.

A Times Populus poll, undertaken over the weekend, puts him well ahead on
first-preference votes. Neither Steve Norris, the Conservative, nor Simon
Hughes, the Liberal Democrat, has been able to see off the other. Their
supporters are not willing to rally behind the strongest challenger on second
preferences.

On top of a strong Labour base, Mr Livingstone continues to win backing across
party lines, notably from Lib Dems. The Times poll suggests that, after the
reallocation of second-preference votes, Mr Livingstone could beat Mr Norris by
58 to 42 per cent, the same as in 2000.

A Livingstone victory could be one of Labour's few wins of the night. As such,
it would provide a much needed boost for Tony Blair, even though Mr Livingstone
has run an outspokenly independent campaign, calling for President Bush to be
tried for war crimes, attacking the Saudi Royal Family and saying that British
troops should be withdrawn from Iraq immediately.

Londoners cautiously back Mr Livingstone's four years as mayor: taking a
favourable view on transport, but being more critical on crime and quality of
life.

Nearly half (48 per cent) support the current congestion charge zone with 44 per
cent against. But two thirds (67 per cent) oppose its extension, with a quarter
supporting enlargement (see tables on page 4).

More than two fifths (44 per cent) are absolutely certain to vote in the
election. After excluding "don't knows" and those who refuse to express a
preference, the implied turnout is 37 per cent, compared with 33.5 per cent in
2000. Voting intention figures are based on those certain to vote.

Mr Livingstone was elected as an Independent, pushing Frank Dobson, the official
Labour candidate, into third.

The new poll suggests that as official Labour candidate he will do better,
winning 42 per cent of first preferences, against 39 per cent in 2000. But this
is less than the 52 per cent combined first preferences for himself and Mr
Dobson in 2000.

The main gainer is Mr Hughes, who is projected to win 20 per cent of first
preferencess, against the 12 per cent won by Susan Kramer four years ago.
However, Mr Hughes is still behind Mr Norris, who is slightly ahead of his 2000
showing (29 per cent against 27).

Mr Hughes has failed fully to mobilise Lib Dems, winning the support of only 53
per cent of those who would vote for the party in a general election. His
problem is that 30 per cent who would vote Lib Dem nationally back Mr
Livingstone. But Mr Hughes is backed by 11 per cent of Tories and 7 per cent of
Labour voters.

Mr Norris does better among the outer boroughs (winning 32 per cent) than the
inner boroughs (24 per cent). He is backed by 74 per cent of those who would
vote Tory in a general election, less than the 81 per cent of Labour voters who
back Mr Livingstone.

Under the supplementary vote system, the second preferences of the third and
lower-placed candidates are allocated to the two candidates who win the most
first preferences. Only three fifths of voters giving a first preference and
certain to vote express a second preference. Mr Hughes gains nearly half of
these, (49 per cent), Mr Norris 30 per cent and Mr Livingstone 21.Four fifths of
Mr Norris's first preference voters back Mr Hughes but Mr Norris receives barely
more second preferences from Hughes supporters (52 per cent) than does Mr
Livingstone (47 per cent).

The poll suggests that Mr Livingstone's endorsement as the Labour candidate may
have damaged him. Some 11 per cent say they would be more likely to vote for him
than if he was standing as an independent. A third, 34 per cent, say it makes
them less likely to vote for him, with 55 per cent saying it will make no real
difference.

However, if Mr Livingstone had been standing as an independent, Labour would
have put up an official candidate, cutting into his vote. So the net effect of
his re-admission is probably to boost his vote.

Darren Johnson for the Greens receives 4 per cent of first preference votes,
double his share in 2000. He gains 7 per cent support among professionals and
managers and does better in inner (7 per cent) than outer London (2).

Frank Maloney, for the UK Independence Party, is backed by 2 per cent, the same
as the party's candidate won in 2000. Some 4 per cent of those who would vote
Tory in a general election back him.

Populus interviewed 1,000 adult residents of London aged over 18 by telephone
between May 26 and 31. Interviews were conducted throughout Greater London and
have been weighted to be representative.

The RMT rail union is attempting to force Mr Livingstone to back down in a pay
dispute by announcing a 24-hour strike on London Underground on election day.
The union has rejected a 3 per cent rise and is demanding a 32-hour, four-day
week as well as a substantial pay increase.

Peter Riddell, page 22 Leading article, page 23


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              377 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

Turmoil in Tory camp after Howard's 'extremist' attack backfires

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 498 words


DAMAGING divisions have surfaced among senior Conservatives over how to deal
with the threat of the UK Independence Party with just a week to go before
polling day.

The Tories are deeply split over whether to attack the anti-EU party head on and
attempt to discredit it, or concentrate on sharpening up their own case on the
EU.

Some of Michael Howard's closest advisers are alarmed that this week's attack on
the UKIP as "extremist" may have backfired, alienating prospective Tory voters.

They fear it looks like an admission that the Conservatives have failed to get
their own Eurosceptic message across.

Many were horrified that a briefing describing UKIP members as "cranks and
political gadflies" was revealed in The Times on Monday. Mr Howard, the Tory
leader, is thought to have been deeply angered by the revelation.

"It was not what Michael intended at all," said one insider. Mr Howard backed
away from the slur in a halting performance during a BBC interview yesterday,
saying it only applied to some UKIP members. The recriminations over how the
UKIP has gained a foothold in the Tory heartland are so intense that some are
predicting a Shadow Cabinet reshuffle after the June 10 elections.

Liam Fox, the party's right-wing co-chairman, is said to back a hardening of the
rhetoric on the UKIP. He faced stiff opposition in a series of heated meetings
last week over how to deal with the threat, but got his way. Mr Howard delivered
his first major attack on the party in a speech on Tuesday.

The knives are out for Michael Ancram, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, for failing
to put together a robust strategy for selling the party's stance. Mr Howard set
out his tough European policy in February, advocating a more flexible approach
to integration and renegotiation of the EU constitution. Critics say that Mr
Ancram failed to get that message across and left a gap that the UKIP was only
too happy to fill.

In a sign of increasing desperation, John Redwood, the former Trade and Industry
Secretary and an arch Eurosceptic, has been summoned from the back benches to
defend the party's policy on radio and television. "John Redwood is well known
for his fervent Eurosceptic views, so when he backs the party's policy on
flexibility he has credibility with the many hundreds of thousands of
Eurosceptics that other Tories lack," said one MP.

Labour was quick to seize upon Mr Howard's fresh woes, saying his awkward
interview performance was evidence that the Tory leader was papering over
widening cracks in his party over Europe. It hopes to underline the impression
that Mr Howard's arrival as leader has only temporarily halted internal Tory
squabbles over Europe.

Douglas Alexander, the Cabinet Office Minister, said: "Mr Howard is suffering
great difficulties in the midst of this campaign trying to keep united what is
an increasingly divided Conservative Party on the contentious issue of Europe."

Leading article, page 23


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              378 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

Momentum gathers as UKIP casts its net wide

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin and Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 919 words


Fringe party's appeal extends beyond the boundaries of Britain itself, report
Tom Baldwin and Helen Rumbelow

BRITISH sovereignty is the UK Independence Party's founding principle but many
of the key players behind its rapid rise of recent weeks have been recruited
from the sunny climes of Southern Europe.

It was on a Mediterranean cruise last summer that Roger Knapman, the UKIP's
leader, had a chance encounter with Dick Morris, which led Bill Clinton's former
political adviser to draw up the party's strategy for next week's European
elections.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, who is a UKIP candidate for the East Midlands after being
dismissed from his BBC TV morning show, was recruited over lunch at the Earl of
Bradford's house in the south of Spain in April. In turn, he has secured the
endorsement of Joan Collins, the actress, who says that she is worried that the
euro is increasing the cost of maintaining her home in St Tropez.

There is much about the UKIP that reflects Mr Kilroy-Silk's permatanned,
sepia-tinted, or even "ex-pat" patriotic vision of Britain. It is following in
the traditions of Sir James Goldsmith, who funded the Referendum Party in 1997
from the South of France. But this is also a party which has been transformed
from the amateurish margins of Europhobia into a force which is rattling the
cage of the political establishment.

The UKIP is expected next week to improve significantly on its 7 per cent share
of the vote in the 1999 European elections, denting Tory hopes of a crushing
victory over Labour. "Kilroy" is threatening to be Michael Howard's "kill-joy".

The three seats that the UKIP won in the European Parliament five years ago were
secured on a campaign budget of £60,000. This time, the party is spending more
than £2 million. Much of this money is understood to come from Paul Sykes, a
Yorkshire property tycoon who sees the elections as Britain's "Battle of
Waterloo" against Brussels. He has paid for many of the party's 2,000 billboard
advertisements across the country.

Still more help has come from Alan Bown, a former Kent bookmaker, who now
supplies dressing gowns to department stores. He has donated up to £1 million in
printing costs for the 40 million leaflets being distributed and media
advertising, as well paying most of the £100,000-plus fee needed to hire the
services of Max Clifford, the celebrity publicist.

Mr Clifford's first move was to promote Elizabeth Winkfield, 83, from Devon, as
the "lady in tweed" ready to go to jail rather than pay her council tax.
Although she was, as he admitted yesterday, "one of my older female clients",
she also showed the potential for applying his skills to the political field.

He has led Nigel Farage, the UKIP MEP, on a tour around newspaper offices where
they "put the word out that the party was on the way up and had no links to the
BNP or other racists". He said: "I have usually tried to stay away from politics
apart from helping to bring down the last Tory Government" -a reference to his
role in publicising sex scandals involving Tory MPs such as David Mellor, as
well as Piers Merchant, now a UKIP supporter.

How much time does he devote to the UKIP? "Sometimes it's as much as an hour a
day," replied Mr Clifford. "I don't want to sound arrogant but I can do more in
an hour than other people can do in two or three months. That is the nature of
the business."

Mr Morris's involvement has been similarly limited and is now, apparently,
confined to e-mail correspondence from America. But on a Saturday night back in
January, at a small motel in Torbay, the American political strategist told UKIP
candidates how to make maximum impact in the European elections.

His orders were simple: "Stop trying to win the argument, just get the party's
name out." He told them to bite their lips because by shutting up on the
subject, he said, they would appear calmer and less extremist.

Mr Morris, who worked for the US Republicans before switching to the Democrats
in 1996, is a controversial figure in America. George Stephanopoulos, the former
White House communications chief, described him as the "dark Buddha whose belly
Clinton rubbed in desperate times". But he has always got results.

For the UKIP he designed a six-month strategy to raise their profile. The first
stage was moving out of cramped London offices in Broadwick Street, Soho, to new
headquarters in spacious offices in Birmingham.

The next step was to make billboard advertising, with the simple slogan of "Just
Say No" the top priority.

"Dick said go for the billboards and the rest will happen -and it has," said
David Lott, the UKIP chairman. The party's subsequent surge in the opinion polls
is certainly having a dramatic effect on the Tories.

Mr Howard, who had previously sought to relegate Europe as an issue behind
public services, is now facing fresh pressure from hardline sceptics who fear
they are being outflanked by the new rival's policies.

But the sheen of professionalism is unlikely to outlast the stay of the UKIP's
expensively hired consultants. Mr Clifford himself told The Times yesterday that
he expected to vote Labour, "as I always do", at the next general election. "I
support UKIP on this issue about Europe, but this is a one-off," he said.

As Mr Morris's campaign posters say, the UKIP is asking people to "lend us your
vote". At the next general election, the party will probably have to give it
back.

Far-right spread, page 18


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              379 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

Exhausted workers urged to battle on

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 313 words


IN AN empty wing of a Birmingham manufacturer of battleship parts is a low
ceiling room festooned with Union Jacks, maps of Britain and cards from
wellwishers exhorting the crowd of exhausted workers "to keep up the fight".

Here is the headquarters of the UK Independence Party, overwhelmed in recent
weeks by the response to its campaign for the European elections next Thursday.

"We came in one day about three weeks ago and it had just exploded -the phones
never stopped ringing. We couldn't print posters fast enough -it was bedlam,"
said Denis Brookes, the UKIP's West Midlands regional organiser. He took a call
from a man requesting posters for his fish and chip shop in Colwyn Bay, North
Wales. "You see, even that's different," he said. "Before, shops were very
reluctant to put our poster in their windows."

The office is one of eight bases for the UKIP but it is the official point of
contact for the public, which means that its ten telephones ring just as soon as
their handsets are replaced. In one corner is a table staffed by the "stickers
and stuffers". They process membership forms at a rate of around 1,000 a week.

Betty Jones, 59, who has retired from her job as housekeeper at Cowdray Park,
West Sussex, volunteers as a sticker and stuffer several days a week because of
her deep antipathy to anything that is not British.

"I never go abroad. I don't even own a passport. I only had one once because of
a day trip to see the memorial at Dunkirk," she said.

Stephen White, 58, a selfemployed builder, said that he first entered the office
when it had just relocated from London in January to take advantage of cheaper
rates.

"It was just me and Denis, and we looked out of the window, and I remember the
silence. Look at it now," he marvelled, raising his voice to a near-shout to be
heard above the din of the telephones.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              380 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

A bumpy ride on the road from Maastricht

BYLINE: Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 239 words


THE origins of the UKIP go back to the Conservative Party's splits over
negotiations leading up to the Maastricht treaty in the early 1990s.

In 1991 Alan Sked, a history don at the London School of Economics, set up the
Anti-Federalist League to stand against any MP who supported the Maastricht
treaty.

Dr Sked was a former Liberal candidate, yet his support came mainly from
disaffected Thatcherites, and, in October 1993, the United Kingdom Independence
Party was born. Its main aim was withdrawal from the EU and negotiation of a
free trade agreement.

They contested the 1994 European elections but made little headway. In the 1997
general election they were eclipsed by the billionaire Sir James Goldsmith,
whose Referendum Party called for a vote on membership of the euro. The UKIP did
badly even by the standards of a fringe party, and a breakaway group, centred
around Nigel Farage, one of the party's candidates, met to discuss what had gone
wrong.

Dr Sked decided to quit and since then the UKIP has had three different leaders.

But for most of that time Mr Farage, a commodities broker from Kent, has been
the driving force. In 1999 he was elected along with Jeremy Titford, an
undertaker, and Michael Holmes, the party leader, to the European Parliament. In
2001, the UKIP polled just 1.5 per cent of the vote in the general election. But
the signs are that this could be its best year yet.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              381 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

Voting strategies in the coming European elections

SECTION: Features; 23

LENGTH: 569 words


From Dr Patrick Hoyte

Sir, Posters around the country encourage us to vote in the European elections
for those parties not in power in order "to teach Tony a lesson". But are
European elections necessary at all, and how can the encouragement possibly be
appropriate? Regardless of what we may think of the party which is in power, it
surely cannot be right for the UK to be represented overseas in any proportion
which does not accurately reflect the views of our own Parliament.

Either we should send delegates to Brussels in the exact political ratio of the
current House of Commons or we should send only one delegate, to exercise a
block vote. The latter option would of course have the additional merit of
shortening the gravy train to one fairly small guard's van.

Yours faithfully, PATRICK HOYTE, Willow Bradley, Withleigh, Tiverton, Devon EX16
8JJ.

June 1.

From Mrs Roberta Nichols

Sir, I agree that it is an advantage to be able to talk to candidates or their
representatives at election time (letters, May 31), but this is a logistical
impossibility.

Not only is there a shortage of volunteers to knock on doors or man telephone
banks, but the opportunities for catching voters at home shrink by the year.
What with Sunday shopping, fear of opening the door to a stranger in the evening
and reluctance of voters to tear themselves away from their favourite soap
operas, canvassing has become a thankless and often useless task, as I know from
experience.

Yours faithfully, ROBERTA NICHOLS, 38 Mattock Way, Abingdon, Oxfordshire OX14
2PQ.

May 31.

From Mr Daniel Hannan, MEP for South East Region (Conservative)

Sir, Chris Huhne has me bang to rights (People, June 1). I have not drafted a
single piece of legislation in the last session of the European Parliament.

What is more, I promise that, if re-elected next week, I shall not draft any
legislation in the next session. I see it as my job to reduce the burden of law
coming from Brussels, not add to it.

Yours faithfully, DANIEL HANNAN (Group of the European People's Party and
European Democrats), 58 Keswick Road, Great Bookham KT23 4BH.

June 1.

From Mr Peter Hole

Sir, In describing those who support the UKIP as "cranks" and "Little
Englanders" (Comment, June 2), the Tory party is being unwise as well as
insulting. I who, like many people, would probably consider myself a traditional
Tory voter -am profoundly concerned about the onward march of European
federalism and the ever- increasing interference in our daily lives by the
European Commission.

The Tory party has fudged the European issue for years, hence the growing
frustration of many of its supporters. Some of these people may well vote UKIP
in the European Parliament election as a protest, but will endorse Conservative
candidates in the local election, and in the next general election.

Yours faithfully, PETER HOLE, 39 Vogan Close, Reigate RH2 8AT.

aphole@ntlworld.com

June 2.

From Mr Robert A. McWhirter

Sir, I was a UKIP candidate for the Scottish Parliament at the last election,
and as a Scotsman, with a Welsh degree, and a year working in Germany under my
(wide) belt, I am many things, but "Little Englander" is by far the least
accurate.

Yours faithfully, ROBERT A. McWHIRTER, 2 Cavendish House, Eastgate Gardens,
Guildford GU1 4AY.

robert.mcwhirter ukip-in-scotland.org

June 2.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              382 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

Get real

SECTION: Features; 23

LENGTH: 644 words


London and Livingstone, Howard and the UKIP

If the results of the Times/Populus poll of voters in the capital published
today are repeated next week, Ken Livingstone will secure an unwelcome second
term as Mayor of London. Steve Norris, his Conservative rival, is stuck in an
electoral siding created by his reckless association with Jarvis. He can, on
this poll, obtain sufficient votes to be runner-up but cannot get enough second
preferences from elsewhere to win. Simon Hughes, for the Liberal Democrats, has
run a lively campaign, is doing better than his party's candidate at this stage
in the last mayoral race and clearly can seize second-choice ballots. He does
not, though, yet have enough backing to reach the final phase. As matters stand,
Mr Livingstone will triumph on the basis of divide and rule.

That would be an extremely unfortunate outcome. The claim that Mr Livingstone
has matured or been moderated by his readmission to Labour has been exploded by
the mayor himself. He has expressed enthusiasm at the idea of the Saudi Royal
Family not just being deposed but swinging from lampposts and repeated his crude
hostility to George W. Bush, including the ludicrous call for the US President
to be tried for war crimes. The task of the mayor is to attract and retain
investment from other countries, not to extend his powers to establishing a
kangaroo court.

It is unlikely that there will many in Riyadh or Washington keen to invite Mr
Livingstone for trade discussions if he is re-elected. His vote-seeking
irresponsibility does not come without cost.

The same applies to his policies in the city itself. Mr Livingstone's supporters
laud him for the congestion charge and the many extra buses he has placed on the
roads. The technical aspects of the charge have largely been implemented
efficiently. Londoners, however, as this poll shows, are divided on whether the
current charging zone should be maintained, and are determined that it should
not be extended. The fleets of additional buses, meanwhile, often serve to
transport fresh air across the city while adding to a vast deficit that will
have to be addressed after the campaign. Voters should run their calculators
over the Livingstone manifesto and then their minds as to how best to use this
electoral system if they wisely conclude that he should be beaten.

Some mental agility at Conservative Central Office would also be welcome. On the
basis of little more than the behaviour of a few maverick peers and a couple of
internet opinion surveys, Michael Howard has allowed himself to be bounced into
providing the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) with much more free
publicity. The Tory leader's address on Tuesday, in which he sought to place his
party in the middle of a spectrum which has the UKIP at one end and Labour and
the Lib Dems at the other, was not his finest hour. It was compounded by an
uncertain performance yesterday on the Today programme, when he was strangely
hesitant and unconvincing. Meanwhile, allowing John Redwood to act as his
spokesman was also a move that he should regret.

A notable minority (and occasional majority) of voters has opposed British EU
membership for three decades. It is not surprising that such voters would wish
to express that view in a contest for the European Parliament, which they view
as illegitimate. The UKIP won 7 per cent of the national vote (on a dire
turnout) in these elections five years ago. But it obtained a mere 1.5 per cent
in the general election two years later. In our London poll, the UKIP mayoral
contender stands at 2 per cent. A realistic Tory approach to the UKIP would be
to concede it will fare well in a European vote, but dismiss it as a caravan of
carnival performers.

The best thing to do with "gadflies" is not to waste too much energy trying to
swat them.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              383 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 2, 2004

Howard claims centre on Europe

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 501 words


MICHAEL Howard put the Tories squarely on the centre ground over Europe
yesterday.

The Conservative leader denounced the UK Independence Party, on one side, and
Labour and the LibDems on the other as 'extreme'.

He said he was committed to staying in Europe to lead the fight against a
federal superstate.

Only the Tories, he said, were ready to take the EU in a new direction that left
more power in the hands of the member states.

And he urged the public: 'Don't waste your vote.' Combating a rise in support
for the UKIP, Mr Howard used the keynote speech of his Euro-election campaign to
demand EU reform.

He pledged to fight for the kind of EU that the 'main-stream majority' in this
country wants. But he is also performing a balancing act in his own party, with
the Eurosceptic majority wrestling with influential pro-Europeans headed by
Kenneth Clarke and Lord Heseltine.

Only a week before his first electoral test, Mr Howard said the country faced a
clear choice on June 10.

'At one extreme there are the candidates from the UK Independence Party,' he
told party activists in Southampton.

'They represent a party that wants to pull out of the European Union altogether.

'At the other extreme are Labour and the Liberal Democrats who want to transfer
even more from Britain to Brussels.' Mr Howard said the Tories had always backed
membership of the EU. But he added: 'We put Britain first. And we reject moves
towards a single European state.' He said the EU needs a new direction,
complaining that it was being dragged down by unemployment, taxes and too much
regulation.

The Tories will campaign for 'an enterprise Europe', he said, 'and we want to
see profound changes in the way the European Union conducts its business as
well'.

The Brussels Commission was riddled by corruption, with Pounds 3billion going
missing every year, he said.

'This is simply unacceptable,' the Tory leader added.

'No sensible person could think that the answer is to give the European Union
even more powers.' Mr Howard said he was totally opposed to the EU Constitution
and warned that a discussion document contained plans to create a fully-fledged
European state in the next 20 years. He renewed his demand for the Common
Fisheries Policy to be scrapped to allow Britain to control its fishing.

And he said overseas aid should be returned to member states because too much
was wasted by Brussels.

The UKIP last night called on Euro-sceptic Tory MPs to 'come out of the closet'
and join its campaign to take Britain out of the EU.

One of its candidates, Robert Kilroy-Silk, said the Tory peers who spoke in
support of the UKIP were 'the tip of an iceberg'.

He said: 'Why don't we have a bit of honest speaking from the Tory MPs who we
know support our cause?

'I say to those Tory MPs: why don't you put your courage where your convictions
are? This is the best opportunity you will ever have to get our country back
from Brussels.'

END

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              384 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 2, 2004

Ineptitude at its most stupefying

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 609 words


TWO feet long and totally baffling, two pages of instructions, two envelopes, a
declaration of identity . . . ballot forms distributed in Manchester are an
inglorious symbol of this Government's stupefying incompetence as the postal
votes fiasco lurches into downright farce.

Leave to one side the 440,000 voting packs that still haven't been sent out and
the people who because of the delay may be deprived of a vote on June 10.

We now learn that many who have received their papers can't make head or tail of
them. Town halls across the North were yesterday inundated with inquiries from
bewildered voters.

This sorry affair epitomises New Labour's three defining characteristics: a
compulsion to tear down tried and tested institutions; an awesome ineptitude;
and, as we shall explain, a hint of corruption.

The bumbling John Prescott could have listened to the Electoral Commission when
it warned his postal votes experiment should be restricted to just two regions.
But no. He insisted on extending the scheme to 14million voters.

He could have listened to the House of Lords, which repeatedly rejected his
plans. But he refused to think again.

It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that he was influenced by Labour's
election theoreticians, who believed this scheme would help to get out the
apathetic vote in the party's heartlands.

Some theory. Unless returning officers perform miracles, these elections are
likely to spawn a slew of legal challenges, leading to more confusion, delay and
expense.

How typical that Lord Falconer, the man who presided over the Dome debacle - who
has no electoral mandate, and whose only claim to office is that he was Tony
Blair's flatmate - should now be presiding over this fine mess.

A wasted vote

THERE is no great mystery over the apparent surge in support for the United
Kingdom Independence Party.

When voters are alienated by a busybodying, sclerotic, corrupt EU and so often
feel patronised and misled by mainstream politicians, is it surprising if they
turn in despair to the political fringe?

After all, anti-Brussels sentiments have surfaced strongly in France, Holland,
Poland and the Czech Republic. Why should Britain be immune?

Polls suggest that UKIP may snatch nearly 20 per cent of the vote in the
European elections, driving the Lib Dems into fourth place. How bitterly ironic
then that the beneficiary may be that enthusiast for all things European, Tony
Blair.

The reason, of course, is that UKIP threatens to split the Tory vote. Many
Conservatives so loathe Brussels that they are determined to register a protest,
even if it means abandoning their own party.

But consider the consequences if, as a result, New Labour emerges on top.

Wouldn't a triumphant Mr Blair immediately denounce all eurosceptics as Little
Englanders who want to pull out of Europe - something that might frighten
middle-of-the-road Britons (who don't want federalism) into reluctantly
supporting the EU constitution?

And wouldn't it be a huge blow to Mr Howard, the only party leader capable of
halting the slide into an EU superstate?

UKIP doesn't deserve success. Its policy of leaving the EU - when the real need
is for reform from within - is actually one of defeatism and despair.

Mr Howard reflects Britain's needs when he argues for an 'enterprise Europe' of
sovereign nation states.

That is why his message should be heard.

And why this paper believes a vote for UKIP would not be in the interests of the
majority of moderate Britons who don't want a federal Europe, but who do want
cordial links with the Continent.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              385 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 02, 2004, Wednesday

Many Tories want to quit Europe, says Kilroy-Silk

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 285 words

MANY Tory MPs are in favour of withdrawal from the European Union, the United
Kingdom Independence Party said yesterday.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, UKIP's lead candidate in the East Midlands, made the claim
after Michael Howard denounced the party as "extremist" for wanting Britain to
withdraw from the European Union.

UKIP also announced that Sir Richard Body, a former Conservative MP, would be
supporting the party on a platform tonight. Sir Richard will be the fourth
former Tory MP to endorse the party. The others are Roger Knapman, UKIP's
leader, Piers Merchant, its lead candidate in the North East, and Christopher
Gill, now chairman of the Freedom Association.

Four Tory peers have had the whip withdrawn for saying they would support UKIP
in the European elections on June 10.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, insisted there was nothing extremist about
wanting to withdraw from the European Union.

Describing Mr Howard's comments as "extraordinarily patronising", he said: "It
is a spectacular own goal, in particular, to refer to people supporting British
withdrawal from the EU as 'extremists'. If it is extremist to want to be in
charge of your own lives, your own destiny, your own foreign and defence policy,
social security and legal system, if it is extremist to want to get that back
from Brussels and not be governed by a remote bureaucracy, then we are all
extremists now."

At the news conference UKIP published new polling figures suggesting that a
majority of voters now supported its policy.

The YouGov survey, which was conducted last week, said that 48 per cent of
people would vote to pull out of the EU if there was a referendum now and 36 per
cent would vote to stay in.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              386 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 02, 2004, Wednesday

Howard attacks 'extreme' UKIP Vote 2004: Defections will only take the pressure
off Blair, says Conservative leader

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 646 words

MICHAEL Howard launched a counter-attack against the United Kingdom Independence
Party yesterday with a warning that substantial defections by Conservative
supporters would take the pressure off Tony Blair's embattled leadership.

The Tory leader admitted that some Conservative voters were switching to UKIP
but denied suggestions that his party's support was haemorrhaging to the
anti-Brussels party.

"Our canvass reports indicate that they are not making huge gains from us," Mr
Howard told The Daily Telegraph."They may be picking up some support but it does
not all come from our voters."

He appealed to Conservative voters opposed to further European integration not
to be tempted to vote for UKIP in the June 10 elections to the European
Parliament.

"The only effect of voting for UKIP will be to cheer up Tony Blair. He will be
delighted by a vote for any party other than for the Conservatives.

"I am not sure people want to cheer up Tony Blair. They should bear that in mind
when they cast their votes, because the Conservatives are the only party that
can remove him from government."

Mr Howard served notice that any other Conservatives who publicly backed UKIP
would be "kicked out" of the party.

Four Tory peers who urged people to vote for the anti-EU party were stripped of
the Conservative whip at the weekend. However, Mr Howard denied that his party
was splitting over Europe or seeing a re-run of the divisive battles over the EU
which contributed to the party's defeat in 1997.

Only four people had "put their head above the parapet so far". But if there
were any more, they would suffer the same fate.

Mr Howard, who was making his first set-piece speech on Europe during the
campaign, denied that he was "toughening up" Conservative Party policy on the EU
to try to halt the rise in support for UKIP.

But he appeared to acknowledge that UKIP posed a serious threat by referring
directly to it at the start of his speech. He said it represented one "extreme"
because it wanted to pull Britain out of the EU.

At the other extreme were Labour and the Liberal Democrats, which wanted to
transfer even more power from Britain to Brussels. "The Conservative Party
rejects both these extremes," Mr Howard told party supporters in Southampton. He
said the Conservatives had always supported membership of the EU. But Europe now
needed to go in a new direction and become more flexible and outward-looking.

"No sensible person could think that the answer is to give the European Union
more powers," he said.

Mr Howard reaffirmed Conservative opposition to the proposed EU constitution and
claimed that new plans were being drawn up to introduce a Europe-wide tax, a
European minimum income and "create a fully-fledged European state" in the next
20 years.

Saying no did not mean that Britain must leave the EU - just as it could be
outside the euro while still remaining a member. Instead, Britain should
champion its own view of Europe, with powers handed back to national parliaments
in areas such as fishing and overseas aid.

Mr Howard said: "Britain's interests are best served by staying in Europe - but
by using our influence to make the EU confront its failings and become more
tolerant. That is what the mainstream majority in Britain want - and that is
what a Conservative government will give them."

Mr Howard made clear before the speech that if the proposed constitution were
rejected in a British referendum, the next Conservative government would demand
a renegotiation of its terms.

At that point, a Tory government would put forward forcefully its view that the
EU "change course". If other European countries wanted to press ahead with
closer co-operation, they would need Britain's agreement.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, said that Mr Howard's speech showed the panic
and disarray that surrounded the Tory campaign.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              387 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 02, 2004, Wednesday

Where is the Tory alternative?

BYLINE: By Janet Daley

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 22

LENGTH: 952 words

Let down by your deodorant/ loo cleaner/ washing powder? Has the brand leader
failed to live up to its advertised claims? Then why not try New Improved Tory?
That, believe it or not, is the theme of the Conservative campaign for next
week's elections: "Let down by Labour? Vote for us." As one American car hire
firm used to say: "Because we're only number two in the country, we try harder."
You've been disappointed by the guys who look like winners, so how about giving
the losers a chance?

Good grief. I thought - I really, really thought - that the Conservatives were
finally ready to stop backing away from the fight. That they were, at last,
ready to stop apologising for the crimes that they had never committed and were
preparing to rededicate themselves to being the only truly progressive party in
British politics.

But apparently not. Terrified of being labelled "extremist", they are determined
to fight every issue on Labour's ground. That is, to restrict their frame of
reference to the narrow strip of ideological territory that Labour has
designated as the "centre ground" of British politics.

What this involves is accepting virtually all the premises that make the debate
unwinnable: that public spending by government for "the people" is inherently
fair and virtuous, but private spending by real people is dangerously wicked and
selfish; that Britain's full-blooded membership of the European Union is beyond
debate and the most that we can do is fiddle with the details; and that choice
may be a good thing in health and education, but only if the state keeps control
of the supply of funds.

Some of this is rooted in the Conservatives' collective nervous breakdown phase,
when they made a conscious decision to renounce the past rather than defend it.
They gave up the battle to disprove the Big Lie of the 1980s: that the
Conservatives cut public spending. It did not seem worth the effort to insist on
the truth - that public spending never fell under the Tory governments of
Margaret Thatcher and John Major.

The myth of "Tory cuts" had arisen out of the rate-capping policy that was
intended to force hugely over-spending Labour councils to curtail their more
ridiculous expenditure initiatives. But instead of cutting back on their gender
equality awareness officers and the housing acquisition programmes, which were
class war by other means, Labour councillors - who never missed a trick when it
came to short-term propaganda advantage - cut the most visible and sensitive
services. (Meals-on-wheels were always the first thing to go.)

But no, the Tory leadership insisted that to dismantle that mythology looked too
defensive and backward-looking. So they let it go, and now they are branded for
ever as the "Party That Cut Your Services". Which is why they have to fight the
most important political battles over tax-and-spend with (at least) one hand
tied behind their backs.

Then, of course, there were the great Tory divisions on Europe, over which the
party nearly destroyed itself. I have been able, in the past, to sympathise with
the party's dilemma about what to say on Europe. If any leader so much as
uttered a squeak of serious Euro-scepticism, the BBC trundled out Michael
Heseltine to create a Tory split story.

But isn't it time we got past this? Mr Heseltine will be in a bath chair before
the Today programme gives up its lip-smacking delight in ancient Conservative
feuds, but how many ordinary people are still worried by them? It is today's
voters - who want to hear somebody talking turkey about the drive toward
Euro-federalism - not yesterday's embittered politicians that party strategists
should be worried about.

The immediate threat from the UK Independence Party may be Michael Howard's
worry of the moment, but there is a much wider front on which his party's
recovery seems to be stalling. Mr Howard and (at least some of) his shadow
cabinet colleagues constitute the most plausible and fluent frontbench team that
the Conservatives have mustered for more than a decade.

But what - what, what - are they offering as an alternative to Labour? If you
feel well and truly let down (as the Tory campaign ads assume) by, say, the
Government's failure to deliver on public services, then you are presumably
aware that much of the increased public spending on health and education is
being wasted. So what do the Tories promise you? That they will spend as much,
if not more, on health and education.

If you feel let down by the considerable extra burden of taxation that has
fallen on your household under Labour, then one of the few Tory arguments that
has probably impressed you is the one about Labour's addiction to stealth taxes.
So what do the Tories offer? A promise that taxes will not increase quite so
fast under them as they would have done under the Brown-Blair dispensation, plus
some vague murmurings of good intentions about maybe, perhaps,
we'll-have-to-wait-and-see on cutting taxes. Oh dear.

Surely, surely, after years of hammering away to good effect about stealth
taxes, Mr Howard and his shadow chancellor, Oliver Letwin, could name a single
one that they would instantly abolish on taking office.

Senior Tories tell me they are convinced that their "moral case for lower tax"
speeches have got little attention because the taxation issue doesn't resonate
with voters now the way it did in the 1970s, when income tax was ludicrously
high.

Sorry, no. The reason that the speeches don't make headlines is because they
contain no hard news. "Opposition party offers pious rhetoric" is not a story.
"Tories speak the truth and will follow it up with action" was big news in the
1970s - and it still would be now.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              388 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 02, 2004, Wednesday

Now Howard has really upset Skipper Mick Notebook

BYLINE: By Quentin Letts

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 22

LENGTH: 591 words

About once a week, my telephone rings and a salty voice bawls down the line, to
the background swell of cawing gulls and splashing briny. Mick Mahon is a
Cornish fisherman and UKIP supporter who is steaming round the south of England.
His destination: Traitors' Gate, where he intends to hoist an effigy of Sir
Edward Heath.

Yesterday he made contact from somewhere choppy off Chatham. "Steaming" is not
quite the word. This Capt Haddock of a seadog was in such a mood that, if he had
been clenching a pipe between his teeth, he would have shattered its stem.

Last Saturday, about noon, big-bearded Skipper Mick had tried to enter
Folkestone harbour. A small quayside reception awaited him. Thick sandwiches and
roped-pastry pies had been prepared by on-shore UKIP members. Yet Mahon was told
that on no account must he sail into port. The harbour was "full". Entry
forbidden, verboten, prohibido. Lunch was off.

"The $*& pounds %!" cries Mahon from the wheelhouse of his trawler, the J-Anne.
He notes that Folkestone is in the constituency of Tory leader Michael Howard.
He adds that the harbour is owned by Sea Containers, whose founder, James
Sherwood, he takes to be a Tory. Sherwood is certainly a plutocrat, but his
party loyalties are to me uncharted waters.

One lesson can be learnt from this tale. Never stand between a bearded
trawlerman and his food.  *There has been little yelping about a government
suggestion that private schools lose their charitable status.

Labour strategists had hoped for more of an outcry at this gambit, which could
wallop the 4x4-driving classes. They expected public school parents to send up a
mass muezzin of despair - which would make the rest of the country feel happy,
and perhaps vote Labour.

Why so few protests? Maybe no one believes a government would be so silly as to
wreck one of the few world-class parts of our education system. Hmmn. That might
be to underestimate Prime Minister-to-be Gordon Brown's loathing of "elitism".

The more likely reason for the silence is that independent schools have lost the
automatic sympathy of their customers. They have become too greedy. Today's
private schools are absurdly well equipped, with swanky sports halls, swimming
pools and accommodation blocks. Children do not need private bedrooms and
studies. There was nothing wrong with outdoor lavatories, communal bathrooms and
lumpy mattresses.

Grander facilities do not raise the standard of education. All they do is make
the fees higher, eroding the notion of charitable endeavour.  *Gordon Ramsay,
star of Hell's Kitchen on ITV, is the Alastair Campbell of cooking. He makes
people cry, swears, is a master of saucing things up and yet seems to be
tolerated.

"Gordon is ace - he rules," ran one viewer's text message. Did Campbell rule,
too? Some say so.

In Ramsay's kitchen we saw spillages (or "leaks", to use the political term) and
underlings put in their place ("mis en place", I believe). "Have table three had
their desserts?" asked one skivvy, as timorous as a Blairite asking if
Alastair's latest enemy had been served his just comeuppance.

I like the head waiter. He is dark-haired, lean, waxen-faced and exudes
sepulchral calm. Pure Peter Mandelson.  *The BBC's new chairman, Michael Grade,
has a reputation for chasing ratings like a fey admiral. One thing he could do
to win widespread support is order his staff to stop pronouncing "Baghdad" the
now-popular, American way. The emphasis, please, should be placed on the second
syllable.

Andrew Marr is away

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              389 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 02, 2004, Wednesday

Howard has to see off challenge of the UKIP

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 23

LENGTH: 749 words

Conservative voters who might be described as broadly sceptical of European
integration are confused. Opinion polls suggest many thousands of them will
defect during next Thursday's European elections to the UK Independence Party.
They will do so either because they reject, or because they do not understand,
the Tories' policies on Europe. We have some sympathy with the frustrations of
instinctive conservatives who are innately suspicious of the European project
and do not see their gut instincts reflected in Tory policy. To them, Michael
Howard's speech yesterday will have sounded suspiciously like a piece of
Blairite triangulation: set up the Government and the Liberal Democrats as
Euro-fanatics on the one hand; brand the UKIP as extremist withdrawers on the
other; and position the Conservative Party as a "middle way" and wait for the
adulation of a grateful nation.

Many disenchanted Conservatives will regard Mr Howard's contortions as too
reminiscent of the John Major years, when the government huffed and puffed about
its Euro-scepticism, but actually ceded ever greater powers to Brussels.

Just as the British National Party has sensed opportunity in Labour's failure to
address chronic problems in the asylum and immigration systems, so the UKIP has
spotted rich pickings amid apparent Tory confusion over Europe. The appeal of
the UKIP for many conservatives is the simplicity of its message, which is to
seek early withdrawal from the EU. This may sound exciting, but we still
disagree that withdrawal would in itself be a good thing, or a pragmatic policy
for a serious opposition party seeking a return to government. When Tony Blair
accuses the Conservative leadership of wanting to take Britain out of the EU,
sensible supporters of the party should wonder why he would say that. For the
truth is that, even if the country remains, like the Conservative Party, broadly
sceptical of European integration, it is untrue to say that most voters would
favour withdrawal.

By the same token, it is perfectly reasonable to ask why, if the UKIP seeks
withdrawal from the EU, the party is contesting elections to the European
Parliament, a body that would have no influence at all in achieving this.

Voters weighing a simple choice between the Conservatives and the UKIP are
fooling themselves if they think they are dealing with equivalent alternatives.
The UKIP is a protest party, like the BNP; Mr Howard is the leader of a great
political party, which is obliged by its history and its instincts to put itself
in a condition to govern. That mission presupposes an obligation of loyalty and
discipline, which is why Mr Howard was justified in taking action against the
Conservative peers who challenged his authority by supporting the UKIP. Being a
party of future government, rather than of protest, leads you into compromises
that often appear indecorous. It also requires a leader to take action against
members of the party who make mischief, even if he sympathises with their
essential beliefs. Most of us, if we are honest, are confused, even
hypocritical, in our thinking about Europe. We want the benefits of close and
cordial relations with Europe without the baleful consequences of the meddling
and bureaucratic impulses of Brussels. It is not easy to express that
instinctive feeling within a formal party policy.

In truth, the Conservatives tend to get into trouble on the European question
when they have nothing to say on national issues. If the Tories were offering a
convincing alternative to Gordon Brown's drive to take the British economy back
to the 1970s, and forward to Scandinavian levels of taxation, they would not be
encountering the problems they now face. As Janet Daley argues on the opposite
page, the Conservatives' timidity on taxation and public spending is a huge
missed opportunity that allows Labour to dominate the domestic political debate.
The UKIP is gaining ground in these elections not just because of the question
of our constitutional relationship with Europe, but also because it is savaging
both major parties on the issues of crime, "overcrowding" (by which it means
immigration), an ever more bossy nanny state and rapidly rising levels of public
spending. These are core Conservative concerns. This newspaper supports Mr
Howard, and it is in that spirit we say that the best way for him to see off a
challenge from a protest group offering easy answers is to turn his party around
to tackle these issues head on.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              390 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 02, 2004, Wednesday

No gadfly gibes

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 23

LENGTH: 84 words

SIR - As a loyal supporter of the Conservative Party, I was aghast to read of
Michael Howard's intention to pour vitriol over the UKIP (report, May 31).

If it is to be poured, let it be over that undemocratic, over-bureaucratised,
corrupt monstrosity the EU, and the Labour and Liberal Democrat parties that
wish to take us deeper into it. If Mr Howard wishes to knock the UKIP into a
cocked hat, let him promise to re-establish the primacy of British law over EU
law.

Maritz Vandenberg

London SW15

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              391 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 2, 2004

TRUST US, SAYS HOWARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 382 words


MICHAEL Howard yesterday insisted that only the Conservatives could be trusted
to put Britain first in Europe, as the anti-Brussels UK Independence Party
accused him of "patronising" voters.

Raising the temperature of the battle for votes in next week's European
elections, Mr Howard launched a scathing attack on the Tories' opponents
including UKIP.

The Tory leader said that only his party could deliver the flexible "enterprise
Europe" sought by the "mainstream majority".

Voters had a "clear choice" on June 10 and should not "waste their votes" on any
other party, he warned.

"At one extreme there are the candidates from the UK Independence Party. They
represent a party that want to pull out of the European Union altogether, " said
Mr Howard.

"At the other extreme are Labour and the Liberal Democrats, who want to transfer
even more power from Britain to Brussels, setting Europe on the path to a single
European state.

The Conservative Party rejects these extremes."

Mr Howard added: "We have always supported Britain's membership of the European
Union.

"But we have also always been prepared to stand up for Britain's interests in
Europe.

"We put Britain first. And we reject moves towards a single European state."

Rejecting the proposed European Constitution, Mr Howard, left, said: "I want to
build a Europe of nation states. I do not want to build a nation called Europe."

Yesterday the Daily Express revealed a YouGov poll indicating that UKIP is
heading for a stunning result in the European elections.

It is on course to beat the Liberal Democrats into fourth place in next week's
voting.

A bouyant UKIP sought to step up the pressure.

The party lauded poll findings that 54 per cent of voters thought Britain should
leave the EU if it could negotiate a free trade agreement with the remaining
member states, against 31 per cent who said it should stay in.

Sunday Express columnist Robert Kilroy-Silk, UKIP's candidate in the East
Midlands, said Mr Howard was "patronising" more than half of voters who would
like to see Britain quit the EU.

The Government is prepared to drop its opposition to EU Constitution plans for a
new European public prosecutor to tackle serious cross-border crime, it emerged
yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              392 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 2, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Amidst the sour self-seeking, Europe is falling into decay:
Instead of building on the EU's success, politicians are fuelling its crisis

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1168 words


The Conservatives are on the run, just when they might have landed a
satisfactory blow on Labour in the Euro-elections. The UK Independence party is
coming up fast on the inside rails, snatching 18% of the vote, raiding deep into
Tory Europhobic heartlands. Now the Tories are reaping the whirlwind that they
have sown all these years. The fire lit under everything European is now blowing
back to scorch them. The same rhetoric they have always used to describe
Brussels as a deadly enemy to rival the old Soviet Union now rebounds to the
UKIP's favour.

Yesterday Michael Howard had a choice: he could challenge the UKIP head-on with
a devastating description of what pulling out of Europe would really mean. He
could have spelled out what the terrible cost of an exit would be to British
interests and prosperity. He could have spoken for all the leading British
industrialists who depend on Britain's place in the EU for success. If he wanted
to carve out a statesmanlike role for himself, he could even have talked of
D-day and the symbolism of 60 years of European peace. He might have celebrated
the triumph of the 10 new entrants, a victory for moderated capitalism over
fascism and communism.

He could have made the UKIP look like the pathetic little rump of neo-fascist
populist opportunist they are. Joan Collins of St Tropez and tangerine man
Kilroy-Silk? Howard would have grown in stature and earned an important place in
national poli tics. For if he really does not want Britain out of Europe, he is
the man who can best explain what folly that would be, laying that madness
finally to rest. And he would be believed.

But yesterday he took the low road, as most British politicians do over Europe.
Steeped in sneering Europhobia, this was the speech of a Euro-wrecker, not a
would-be reformer. Instead of denouncing the UKIP, he stood firmly on their
platform: "Say no to the new constitution" which sets us on a path to "a
fully-fledged European state in the next 20 years. . . I do not want to be a
part of a country called Europe. . . We don't want to be railroaded into handing
yet more power to Brussels." He took the UKIP's asylum theme too, and stirred it
together with anti-Europeanism into a poisonous anti-foreigner brew.

But the more he plays UKIP tunes, the more transparently fraudulent his own
policy looks with its feeble pretence that Britain can "renegotiate" basic EU
treaties at no cost at all, while somehow staying in. He knows his "made-
to-measure Europe", where all countries pick and mix what we like from already
agreed treaties, is dishonest fiction. The UKIP speaks the truth: it's in or
out.

Howard never considered the statesmanlike option. It would only have exacerbated
the old trouble already breaking out in Tory ranks. The peers ejected from the
Tory whip for supporting the UKIP spoke for many. The rift between fanatics of
the David Heathcote-Amory, John Redwood, Bill Cash variety and those who try to
keep at least one foot in the real world is now reopened and suppurating. All
was well when they could unite behind the call for a referendum on the
constitution, but Tony Blair, saving his own skin with little honour, did
cleverly rip off the sticking plaster holding the Tories together.

This is the only real passion to be found in this miserable Euro-election.
Labour and the Lib Dems have all but abdicated from the debate. Double check
with Downing Street and no, the prime minister has not made one speech on Europe
during this campaign. Is this the man whose lasting legacy was going to vanquish
50 years of British Europhobia and turn us into successful Europeans?

No, he has not made one speech, just as he never went on the road shows he
promised to persuade a doubting nation to join the euro. This lassitude on
Europe may suggest he is pretty certain there never will be a referendum - or
not on his watch. If some other country doesn't scupper the final negotiations,
then Jack Straw will throttle it with his red lines. But if Gordon Brown is
likely to inherit the poisoned referendum campaign, he shows no sign of worry.
He too has failed to get out there on the stomp for Europe. Nor has Prescott or
any other cabinet ministers who should be reminding voters of all the benefits
the EU brings to their patches. Labour's Euro campaign strategy seems to be
silence.

As for the Lib Dems, the party that used to be most genuinely Euro-enthusiastic
is silent too. They have chosen to talk about Iraq instead. Pro-Europeanism
isn't a winner and a fair number of their newer MPs are now anti-European,
winning Tory seats. So there is not much statesmanship to be found in this
campaign. Few but the valiant Europe minister Denis MacShane have a good word to
say for the union that has brought unprecedented wealth and trade, while
dragging a host of priest-ridden poverty-stricken backward nations into
democratic modernity.

For once, Britain is not alone in its sour self-seeking over Europe. Only a
third of the union's 450 million people will bother to vote. Many will cast
alarmingly high votes for various unsavoury UKIP equivalents, all with their own
local grudges. A former boxer and pig farmer from the Self-Defence party who
compares the EU to Nazi invasion may win a third of Poland's seats. So may the
Czech Eurosceptics. In Denmark, the antis come from the left. Fringe parties
right across Europe are doing well with various degrees of Euro-No. Mainstream
parties are not campaigning on rousing pro-EU platforms either.

Never has the EU been at such a low ebb, badly lead with too little vision to
prevent it crumbling under a host of nationalist special interests. Brussels
seems to glide on regardless of the crisis at its heart. Romano Prodi has been a
weak leader, too preoccupied with his own return to Italian politics. Rifts over
who succeeds him eliminate some of the best candidates for being of left or
right, or the excellent Chris Patten for being British. (How could we expect to
offer a leader from where we are now?)

Once, this could have been Blair's great moment. He is one of the few leaders
who used to command respect. But he squandered it all when he chose Bush, and
not Europe. Once he might have placed himself to lead the urgent EU reforms
needed, opening trade with the developing world, reforming the CAP, forging a
reasonably united foreign policy. If he hadn't gone to war, he might have helped
create a Euro peacekeeping force with a reasonably united presence at the UN.

Now the fall-out from 9/11 and the Iraq invasion shake the world. Saudi Arabia
risks becoming the next casualty as the global economy totters perilously. But
where is Europe when it's needed? Instead of building on its historic political
success, it is falling into querulous decay plagued with small-minded
politicians who would rather blame "Brussels" for their own failings, snatching
short-term political gain in the worst Euro-elections so far.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              393 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 2, 2004

Leading article: European elections: Howard's nightmare

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 353 words


Is there a political landslide building in favour of the UK Independence Party
at the June 10 European elections? To read some accounts, the answer is beyond
doubt. According to a bewildering succession of online polls, variously sliced
and served, UKIP's share of the poll is currently either 12% (as reported in the
Daily Telegraph on Saturday), 18% (Daily Telegraph yesterday) or even 21% (
UKIP's own claim yesterday). Exactly how any of this tallies, if at all, with
ICM's finding for this paper a week ago that 2% would support UKIP in a general,
as opposed to the European, election is a matter for open-minded scrutiny. In
the light of the 1999 European elections, though, when UKIP took 7% of the vote,
it seems likely that the surge to UKIP, while real, may be being talked up. What
is beyond doubt is that there is some significant movement towards UKIP - and
that it has triggered a mood of near frenzy in the Europe-hating classes.

For the Europe-haters this is a bittersweet moment. On the one hand, they long
to celebrate the growth of UKIP support as proof that masses of British voters
share their obsession. On the other, they suddenly realise that the rise of UKIP
threatens damage to the Tory party rather than to Labour or the Liberal
Democrats, which in Europe-hating demonology are both determined to "set Europe
on the path to a single European state", as the Tory leader Michael Howard
untruthfully claimed yesterday. For the Tories, the air is full of the sound of
chickens coming home to roost.

In his speech in Southampton, Mr Howard pretended that the Tories now occupy the
middle-ground between the anti-Europe UKIP and the pro-Europe Labour and Lib
Dems. This claim suffers both from being untrue and from not being what a lot of
Europe-hating Tory activists want to hear. If UKIP really does score well next
week, many Europe-hating Tories will demand that Mr Howard, whom they think of
as one of their own, responds by moving the party sharply to the right. UKIP may
or may not get its dream result on June 10; but, if it does, it could also be Mr
Howards's nightmare.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              394 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 2, 2004

Howard denounces 'extreme' UKIP

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 622 words


A growing panic in Conservative ranks at the threat posed by the United Kingdom
Independence party led to a slanging match yesterday between Michael Howard and
the former daytime television star and aspiring MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Amid fears among senior Tories that the UKIP could seriously dent the Tory vote
on June 10 - marking the end of the Howard honeymoon - the Conservative leader
took the unprecedented step of singling the fringe party out for criticism.

"Here in Britain we face a clear choice," Mr Howard told supporters in
Southampton. "At one extreme there are the candidates from the United Kingdom
Independence party. They represent a party that wants to pull out of the EU
altogether. They have frequently failed to vote in the European parliament on
issues that are vital to Britain.

"At the other extreme are Labour and the Liberal Democrats who want to transfer
even more power from Britain to Brussels, setting Europe on the path to a single
European state. The Conservative party rejects both these extremes."

Mr Howard's decision to name the fringe party, which sparked a furious riposte
from Mr Kilroy-Silk, came after an intense debate among senior Tories about how
to respond to the UKIP, which is grabbing the headlines and was placed in third
place in one YouGov opinion poll.

Some Tories argued that it would be a mistake to name the party, which has just
three MEPs, because that would give it even more publicity. Others said it was
important to take on the UKIP because it is in danger of taking vital votes from
the Tories on "Super Thursday" next week.

After agreeing to follow the second course, Mr Howard attempted to reach out to
disillusioned Eurosceptics by burnishing his anti-Brussels credentials while
warning of the dangers of withdrawing from the union. "We have always supported
Britain's membership of the EU," Mr Howard said. "But we have also always been
prepared to stand up for Britain's interests in Europe."

His remarks prompted an angry response from Mr Kilroy-Silk, the UKIP candidate
in the east Midlands, who was infuriated by an internal Tory document which
described UKIP members as "little Englanders", "cranks and political gadflies".
Mr Kilroy-Silk said Mr Howard had "scored a spectacular own goal" by attacking
his party for wanting to quit the EU.

"I knew the Tories were in panic mode," he said. "I didn't realise they were
actually falling apart. It is extraordinarily patronising. It is a spectacular
own goal to refer to people supporting withdrawal from the EU as 'extremists'."

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who won the support of five Tory peers over the weekend,
attempted to exploit the Tory divisions by declaring that scores of Conservative
MPs privately shared his belief that Britain should withdraw from the EU and
broker a series of free trade agreements with the union's remaining 24 members.

"I say to those Tory MPs who share our views and our aspirations: 'Why don't you
stop sulking in secret in the corridors of Westminster and come out of the
closet? This is the best opportunity you will ever have to get our country back
from Brussels'."

The angry exchanges, which prompted the foreign secretary, Jack Straw, to claim
that the Tories were "falling apart on Europe again", came amid growing fears
among Conservatives that the UKIP could severely undermine the party next week.
"It's all Blair's fault," one frontbencher said. "He announced the referendum on
the EU constitution and described it as an 'in' or 'out' vote. Many of our
supporters have accepted his invitation and are going to vote UKIP."

Eurosceptic warning, page 14

Polly Toynbee, page 22

Leader comment, page 23

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              395 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 2, 2004

Sceptics braced for gains in Europe

BYLINE: Ian Black, in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 579 words


Eurosceptics are set to make record gains in the EU elections, winning enough
seats to hold the balance between the centre right and centre left in the
European parliament, it was claimed yesterday.

Jens-Peter Bonde, the veteran Danish MEP, said his Group for a Europe of
Democracies and Diversities was likely to double its seats to 36.

Other sceptics will join the main centre-right grouping, the European People's
party, which is expected to have an overall majority of 732 members when the new
parliament convenes in July.

The elections, being held in the union's 25 member states between June 10 and
13, will be the world's biggest transnational poll. The European parliament is
the EU's only directly elected institution.

Opinion polls in Poland, the largest of the 10 new members, predict that three
Eurosceptic and extreme nationalist parties will return half the country's 54
MEPs.

The largest of those, the rabidly anti-EU Self-Defence party, headed by the
populist Andrzej Lepper, is alone expected to win 12 seats. It is campaigning
against what it claims are the double standards of the Common Agricultural
Policy and the new EU constitution.

Britain's UK Independence party - predicted to win 10 to 12 seats - is also part
of the phenomenon welcomed by Mr Bonde, a leader of Denmark's June Movement,
which sees the EU as fundamentally anti-democratic but, unlike the British
party, does not want to leave the club.

"I call myself a Eurorealist," Mr Bonde said. "I am not a sceptic. I am
desperately against the undemocratic constitution. But I am not in favour of
withdrawal. I want to change the EU dramatically.

"I think it is likely that the Eurosceptics might have the swing vote between
the centre right and the centre left," he said yesterday.

Analysts say it will take time to work out the politics of the new parliament,
but no one doubts that there will be many more sceptics than before.

"The unknown is how many of the centre-right will be blatantly Eurosceptic,"
Claude Moraes, Labour MEP for London, said. "But we know that numbers will
increase, and that they will be politically emboldened."

The UKIP and Poland are likely to cause the biggest shake-up. But there are also
expected to be gains for sceptics in Hungary, the Czech Republic and Estonia -
where there are worries about the constitution and terms of membership.

Sweden, Ireland, and even the usually Europhile Netherlands, are likely to
increase their Eurosceptic or nationalist MEPs and highlight fraud and waste in
Brussels.

Realignments are also likely on Europe's far-right, where groups such as
Jean-Marie Le Pen's National Front in France, Jorg Haider's Freedom party in
Austria, Italy's Northern League and Belgium's Vlaams Blok will come together,
probably with the British National party, if it wins a seat.

Polls predict a record low turnout - 45% - with the lowest among the new
members: Slovakia (27%), Estonia (26%) and the Czech Republic (20%).

The timing of the elections, just days before EU governments are due to agree
the new constitution, is highly sensitive.

Research published last week by the European Policy Institutes Network showed
that five subjects dominate the election campaigns in most member states:
Turkey's membership prospects; the new constitution; foreign policy and
security; social policy and unemployment/economic policy; and national interests
and national benefits from the EU.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              396 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

HOWARD LAUNCHES FIERCE ATTACK ON UKIP EXTREMISTS'

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Michael Howard making his speech on Europe yesterday in
Southampton where he called the anti-EU UKIP an extreme' party Toby Madden

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 553 words


THE TORIES and the UK Independence Party swapped insults yesterday as the upbeat
anti-EU party announced it had received a pounds 500,000 windfall from a retired
bookmaker.

Alan Bown, who made a multi-million pound fortune from a chain of betting shops
in the South-east, has provided a quarter of the war chest built up by the UKIP
for this month's European elections.

Its pounds 2m fighting fund has helped boost the party towards 20 per cent
opinion poll ratings and alarmed Tory strategists who fear it is siphoning votes
from the Conservatives. In a fiercely worded speech yesterday, Michael Howard,
the Tory leader, denounced the UKIP as an "extreme" party on the "fringe" of the
European debate.

The UKIP accused the Tory leader of lying to the voters and claiming its
ambition to pull out of the European Union was privately shared by many
Conservative MPs.

Mr Howard argued that the country's interests were best served by staying in
Europe, but that Britain should use its influence to reform the European Union
from within.

He said: "That is what the mainstream majority in Britain want - and that is
what a Conservative government will give them. But the fringes at both ends of
the European debates are united in one thing. Both give the British people the
defeatist message that we cannot have a flexible Europe."

In the speech, in Southampton, he said voters faced a "clear choice" at the poll
on 10 June. "At one extreme, there are the candidates from the UK Independence
Party. They represent a party that want to pull out of the European Union
altogether. They have frequently failed to vote in the European Parliament on
issues that are vital to Britain.

"At the other extreme are Labour and the Liberal Democrats - who want to
transfer even more power from Britain to Brussels, setting Europe on the path to
a single European State."

Hours later, the UKIP challenged Eurosceptic Tory MPs to follow the lead of four
peers and join its campaign to take Britain out of the EU.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former chat show-host who is now a the UKIP candidate,
said Mr Howard was "patronising" more than half of the British electorate, who
wanted Britain quit the EU. The party released details of a poll which suggested
54 per cent of voters think Britain should leave the EU if it can negotiate a
free trade agreement with the remaining member states, against 31 per cent who
said it should stay in.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "Why don't we have a bit of honest speaking from the Tory
MPs who we know support our cause? I could give you the names. I know them well.
I say to those Tory MPs who share our views and our aspirations, and there are
many of them, who Michael Howard has just called gadflies and extremists: that's
what your party leader thinks of you because you want Britain to be a sovereign
independent state."

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, confirmed his party was running a pounds 2m
election campaign. He said half had come from its 22,000 members, pounds 500,000
from Mr Bown and the rest from other donors, including millionaire Paul Sykes, a
former Tory supporter.

He said of the pounds 500,000 windfall from Mr Bown: "He has been watching the
party for two or three years. He feels we are literally giving away the right to
run our affairs."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              397 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

THE DISENCHANTED WILL USE THIS POLL TO KICK THE ENTIRE POLITICAL ESTABLISHMENT;
 FEW VOTERS CAN PROBABLY NAME A SINGLE MEP, BUT EVERYONE FEELS THEY

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1200 words


My "Representation of the People Act - Official Poll Card" sits proudly on the
mantelpiece in preparation for the ceremony that awaits me at the Holy Apostles
Church Hall in Cumberland Street, Pimlico on 10 June. With the current raging
battle between the Conservative Party and the UK Independence Party still yet to
reach its climax, I can continue to defer my awesome decision as to which is the
most effective way to make my voice heard by Tony Blair when he goes to Dublin
in a fortnight's time for the final negotiations on the proposed European
constitution.

Even on election day itself, I can read the last-minute opinion polls and
reconsider the parties' leaflets. In the meantime, I can wait expectantly
(although probably in vain) for a party canvasser to knock on my door and engage
in some light-hearted banter. I can resolve, on the morning of polling day, to
vote for UKIP but still defer my walk to the Church Hall before feeling guilty
about breaking a lifetime habit of voting Tory. Alternatively I can decide
today, like probably 75 per cent of electors, that since the whole European
election is a complete waste of time, I am simply not going to bother at all.
But have no doubt, as I gaze at my polling card, I know that eventually I will
amble the 400 hundred yards down to the polling station with 10 minutes to
spare.

Of course, if I were one of the 14 million voters in the four northern regions
of the country where the "postal only" ballots are already taking place -
subject to the extent of the alleged chaos in the conduct of the ballot and the
exigencies of Royal Mail - I would probably have received my voting papers this
morning. Not trusting in the postal service, I would have either cast my vote by
the end of this week - or probably even already binned the ballot papers. My
voting intention, therefore, might well be different if I were voting this week
from what it would be if - as will actually be the case - I were to defer the
decision until shortly before the close of poll at the Church Hall. For this
reason alone - as voters in the recent Spanish general election could testify -
the postal vote should only ever be an adjunct to, never a replacement for, the
polling station.

It is the decisions of anarchist Tories like me or - as Tony Travers, the local
government expert at the London School of Economics, has described us, "naughty
Tories" - who will define the headlines accompanying the results of next week's
European and local elections.

In the past, an unpopular government was often punished by a drubbing in
mid-term polls with the main opposition party mopping up, to its own advantage,
the general feeling of anger against the government. Nowadays that does not
happen. The new process of protest began in the European elections in 1989 when
the Greens stole the headlines by recording a 15 per cent share of the vote. In
recent years, internal Labour Party protest against Tony Blair has resulted in
the election of the likes of Ken Livingstone and the infamous Hartlepool monkey
to the new directly elected mayoralties that were created four years ago.

But it has been as much the participation of Professor Travers' "naughty Tories"
in these recent elections that played a significant part in giving Mr Blair his
bloody nose. The "naughty" voter (Labour also suffered at the hands of "naughty"
Labour voters in North Tyneside, where they elected a Tory mayor last time) is
usually more concerned to make trouble for the incumbent to reward the main
establishment alternative.

In London, voters have five separate votes with which to send confusing and
contradictory messages to the party leaders. In addition to my two preference
votes for the London mayor, I also have a candidate vote for the London Assembly
as well as a party vote and, of course, the European Parliament. It is therefore
possible for some naughty Tories to vote UKIP for mayor - as their first choice
- and then salve their consciences (because this vote will in all probability be
eliminated) by voting for the party candidate Steve Norris as their second
preference.

This, I suspect, is what a number of the "Tories for Ken", who voted Livingstone
in 2000 but who cannot now bring themselves to vote Labour, might do. Yours
truly is minded, today, to do this - although much can change before next
Thursday. Guilt could then make us still vote Tory in the European ballot.

So it is not a wish to harm Michael Howard that motivates electors such as me to
contemplate UKIP. It is simply the wish to cause embarrassment to the system as
a whole by having someone like Robert Kilroy-Silk in the European Parliament
that makes their candidates so attractive.

Add in the extra ingredient of Joan Collins, taking time off from Hollywood, and
the Tory attack about "cranks and gadflies" looks more than a little mean and
desperate. Few voters can probably name a single Tory, Labour or Lib Dem MEP,
but everyone feels they know - or would like to know - Miss Collins or Mr
Kilroy-Silk.

If UKIP should turn out to be the star of next week's show then there is likely
to be a real impact, seven days later, on Tony Blair's willingness or otherwise
to sign up to the European constitution as it is currently drafted. It would be
arrogance of the most extraordinary order if, after a significant proportion of
the population had voted for a party committed to withdrawal from Europe, Mr
Blair did not subtly learn some lessons from the poll.

This is a serious reason why some naughty Tories might want to use the impact of
their votes as a way of piling on the pressure at the negotiations in Dublin in
a fortnight's time. The trouble is that, while naughty Tories will think that
they are embarrassing Mr Blair, the commentators will interpret their votes as a
slap in the face for Mr Howard.

It is therefore understandable that the Tories should feel almost cheated by the
behaviour of UKIP in raining on their parade. Earlier in the year, the Tory plan
was to base their election campaign on a demand for a referendum on the
constitution. Now that Mr Blair has been forced to concede on this issue, the
Tory case has temporarily lost momentum.

In the longer term, it will have done Mr Howard no harm to have donned the
mantle of the centrist on Europe. Yesterday he painted the Labour and Liberal
Democrats as extremist Europhiles and UKIP as extremist Europhobes, with himself
as the middle-of-the-road man of sweet reason. The alternative strategy was to
seek to outbid UKIP in his Eurosceptic credentials.

But that would have reopened the recently healed split with Tory Europhiles such
as Ken Clarke.

Unfortunately, majestic, reasonable and moderate appeals to the centre ground,
essential in a general election, do not always make much of an impact in a
mid-term poll.

It is precisely the lurid charms from the dotty, the mavericks and the
irresponsible that tickle the fancy of the disenchanted and the grumpy who want
to kick, not so much a particular party, as the whole of the political
establishment. And if their fancy is not tickled, then they simply stay at home.

mrbrown@pimlico.freeserve.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              398 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

REMIND YOU OF ANYONE?

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 98 words

HIGHLIGHT: POTTY: Powell delivers an anti-immigration speech; RAGE: Kilroy-Silk
on the attack in London yesterday


MAD staring eyes, the tortured grimace... is Robert Kilroy-Silk turning into the
new Enoch Powell?

That was the question yesterday as the axed TV presenter and former Labour MP
hit the campaign trail for the UK Independence Party (UKIP).

Powell would certainly be proud of Kilroy-Silk's anti-European stance. Yesterday
Kilroy-Silk called on euro-sceptic Conservative MPs to "come out of the closet"
and support his party.

There is one difference though. The right-wing UKIP has strongly denied claims
of links with the British National Party, and said it "abhors racism".

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              399 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

HOWARD IN BID TO HIDE EU 'TRUTH'

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 213 words


MICHAEL Howard was last night exposed as an "EU fraud" as a new poll showed most
Tories want to pull out of Europe altogether.

The YouGov poll reveals 46 per cent favour complete withdrawal.

And Tory HQ is in panic as key supporters desert in droves to the UK
Independence Party ahead of the June 10 elections.

Yesterday the Conservative leader tried to claim the Tories do not want to leave
the EU and he branded the UKIP an "extreme" party.

But he concealed his links with the right-wing euro-sceptic group.

Yesterday Europe Minister Denis MacShane said: "Howard is the godfather of
anti-European politics.

"UKIP simply takes his politics to their logical conclusion. They share the same
politics."

The Mirror can reveal Mr Howard made a euro-sceptic speech to the European
Research Group in 1996.

Other members include Tory peers who have since joined UKIP. They want to
"repatriate" powers from Brussels or withdraw.

He is also connected to members of the extremist Conservatives Against a Federal
Europe (CAFE).

And Mr Howard has appointed a host of Shadow Cabinet figures with links to
anti-Europe groups which are connected to UKIP.

Mr Howard was also humiliated over the weekend when four Tory peers urged voters
to opt for UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              400 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

THE MINISTER FOR EUROPE ON HOW THE LEGACY OF D-DAY IS A BETTER, FAIRER EUROPEAN
COMMUNITY

BYLINE: DENIS MACSHANE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 295 words


THANK you to the Daily Mirror for reproducing the 1944 D-Day edition of the
newspaper yesterday.

It should be sent to every school child to remind tomorrow's Britain what kind
of Europe their grandparents had to live in.

The heroism of British, American, Canadian, Polish and other soldiers on the
beaches of Normandy lives alongside epic battles of history from the siege of
Troy to Waterloo.

But today we need to ask why those men had to risk their lives to save Europe
for freedom?

The answer lies in the old Europe that gave rise to World War Two.

A Europe in which great nations like Britain, France and Germany failed to find
ways to live in peace.

The Europe that gave rise to the need for D-Day had too many poor nations and
too many idealogues.

Hitler was a monster but he grew in a culture of nationalism in which the common
language was one of sneering and denigrating the other countries of Europe.

Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain described Europe as "a faraway place of which
we know nothing".

This was the poisonous politics that exploded into World War Two.

Before 1939 most of Europe's citizens were without any of the rights that are
now taken for granted by hundreds of millions of Europeans.

In the 30s Britain had too many poor neighbours. Now we do $ 3billion (pounds
1.6billion) worth of trade a day between America and Europe.

To cut ourselves off from or reduce our place in Europe as UKIP and Michael
Howard propose is folly.

But to trade, travel or invest in property, while citizens' rights are upheld,
requires common rules.

Our brave soldiers saved us from the evil follies of old Europe.

Today a new Europe can be built providing Britain has the wisdom to learn from
past errors.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              401 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

HOWARD IN BID TO HIDE EU 'TRUTH';
 EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 195 words


MICHAEL Howard was last night exposed as an "EU fraud" as a new poll showed most
Tories want to pull out of Europe altogether.

The YouGov poll reveals 46 per cent favour complete withdrawal.

And Tory HQ is in panic as key supporters desert in droves to the UK
Independence Party ahead of the June 10 elections.

Yesterday the Conservative leader tried to claim the Tories do not want to leave
the EU and he branded the UKIP an "extreme" party.

But he concealed his links with the right-wing euro-sceptic group.

Yesterday Europe Minister Denis MacShane said: "Howard is the godfather of
anti-European politics. UKIP takes his politics to their logical conclusion.
They share the same politics."

The Mirror can reveal Mr Howard made a euro-sceptic speech to the European
Research Group in 1996.

Other members include Tory peers who have since joined UKIP. They want to
"repatriate" powers from Brussels or withdraw.

He is also connected to members of the extremist Conservatives Against a Federal
Europe (CAFE).

And Mr Howard has appointed a host of Shadow Cabinet figures with links to
anti-Europe groups which are connected to UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              402 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

THE SCURRA

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 536 words


COMMONS insiders have been excitedly discussing the exhibitionist tendencies of
one of the most senior members of the Cabinet, I learn.

The email exchange between researchers began with the following cryptic message:
"Spotted... Westminster Gym - an occupant of one of the great offices of state
showering with the curtain open. You don't see THAT every day."

Asked to identify the naked politician, the spotter replied: "Put it like this -
there are only three great offices of state, and it ain't likely to be two of
them."

The three great offices of state are Prime Minister, Chancellor and Foreign
Secretary. As Tony Blair doesn't use the gym and - as mentioned here last week -
Gordon Brown modestly hides his tackle under a towel, the man in the shower can
only have been Jack Straw.

I'll leave the last word with another blogger: "The right honourable Member
concerned has a long record of this sort of thing. It must be stopped. Question
is, how do you tell a senior member of the Cabinet to put his weapon of mass
destruction away?"

FANS of contemporary art can be every bit as bonkers as some of the artists who
produce it. One of the people who attended the scene of the recent warehouse
fire that destroyed some of the most notorious pieces of Britart around reports
that enthusiasts started turning up with buckets.

"They said they wanted to collect some of the ashes," I'm told. "They were even
prepared to pay for them but we told them: 'No.'"

RADIO 4 Today programme presenter James Naughtie was mightily amused by a
government press release about this week's D-Day 60th anniversary ceremony on
the beaches in France.

"We were told that Bush, Blair, Putin and Schroeder would all be there,"
Naughtie told his audience at the Hay-on-Wye Literature Festival. It said there
would also be many veterans from every country involved in the war. And it said
there would even be some German veterans involved, too.

"The release finished with the most amusing sentence I have ever read in a
government communication. It said: 'They (the Germans) have been asked not to
wear their uniforms.'"

THE death of Labour MP Jim Marshall last week has deprived the Commons of one of
its most independent spirits.

A couple of weeks ago, he listened with rising exasperation as Blairite MPs
sucked up to Trade Secretary Patricia Hewitt, telling her how marvellous the
Royal Mail was.

Eventually Marshall could bear it no more. He threw down his order paper, leapt
to his feet and told Hewitt that postal deliveries in his home town, Leicester,
had never been worse.

Hewitt turned positively yellow with queasiness - not least because her
constituency, too, is in Leicester.

BARBARA Windsor's resentment towards her late father, referred to here
yesterday, was so deep she could not bring herself to use his name on the
flowers she sent to his funeral, I hear. Her card said, coldly: "Rest in Peace -
Barbara."

WHEN this column called the Little Englanders at the UK Independence Party
yesterday the phone was answered by... a Frenchwoman!

Her name is Aurelie and she has been a member of the anti-Europe mob for two
years. Asked why, she said: "By conviction."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              403 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 2, 2004

COP OUT

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson Deputy Political Editor

LENGTH: 362 words


*Fury as Blair does EU law U-turn * Europe's power to prosecute Brits

BRITONS could face prosecution by the EU for crimes which do not exist under UK
law, in a U-turn by Tony Blair.

The PM is to surrender huge powers to Brussels to appoint a European public
prosecutor in a move that sparked Tory fury last night.

The unelected supercop will have greater powers than Britain's Crown Prosecution
Service.

Mr Blair has repeatedly rejected the plan for an EU prosecutor in the past.

But yesterday it was revealed he has dropped his objections under pressure from
France. A Foreign Office official said: "It is not something that we would go to
the wire to fight against. It is difficult to object to this measure."

Last night Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram said: "This is an astonishing
surrender by Tony Blair.

"He said he wouldn't accept it but now he's caving in again. A prosecutor would
undermine our legal system, threaten trial by jury and transfer more control to
the EU."

The EU public prosecutor forms a key plank of the new Brussels constitution.

Mr Blair rewrote details of the prosecutor's role in an earlier version of the
constitution. But now he has agreed to the original wording.

The Government's own White Paper on the EU constitution declares: "We see no
need for the creation of a European public prosecutor with the powers to decide
how to prosecute serious transnational crimes."

And Commons leader Peter Hain has said: "The prosecutor would not tackle the
root causes of fraud, reduce the opportunities for fraud, or improve the ability
to detect fraud."

Last night Tory leader Michael Howard tore into the plans and demanded Brussels
hands power BACK to the UK.

He said: "No sensible person could even think the answer is to give the European
Union even more powers."

Mr Howard promised to rewrite Britain's relationship with the EU.

And he warned the EU constitution would end Britain's right to set its own
asylum and immigration policy.

Meanwhile UKIP candidate Robert Kilroy-Silk urged Tory MPs who want to quit the
EU to show their true colours.

The Sun Says - Page Eight


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              404 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

Howard attacks UKIP 'extremists'

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 730 words


It's wrong to assume anti-EU party is standing up for Britain, according to Tory
leader. Rosemary Bennett reports

MICHAEL HOWARD tried to stem the flow of Tory votes to the UK Independence Party
yesterday by accusing it of extremism and failing to stand up for British
interests.

The Tory leader, portraying the Conservatives as the only party representing
mainstream views on the EU, used his first election speech on Europe to attack
the voting behaviour of the UKIP's three MEPs in Brussels, which he said had
threatened Britain's national interests. His speech came as Tory strategists
acknowledged that the UKIP, which is anti-EU, was eating at the party's support
in some of its key heartland areas.

Some polls suggest that the UKIP could push the Liberal Democrats into fourth
place in the June 10 European elections by stealing Tory votes.

Naming the rival party once in his speech, Mr Howard said that its MEPs had
abdicated their responsibilities. "At one extreme there are the candidates from
the UK Independence Party," he told party activists in Southampton. "They
represent a party that wants to pull out of the European Union altogether. They
have frequently failed to vote in the European Parliament on issues that are
vital to Britain."

However, Labour and the Liberal Democrats were just as extreme, Mr Howard said.

"At the other extreme are Labour and the Liberal Democrats who want to transfer
even more power from Britain to Brussels, setting Europe on the path to a single
European state. The Conservative Party rejects both these extremes."

The Conservative Research Department has compiled a dossier on the voting record
of the UKIP's three MEPs. It shows that some or all of the members missed key
votes on the EU budget over the past five years, despite campaigning on the
issue in this election campaign; and that the MEPs voted in favour of removing
Britain's opt-out on the Working Time Directive in February; and abstained on a
vote to curtail the sale of vitamin supplements across the EU.

But in the highly Eurosceptic speech, Mr Howard attempted to show voters that he
was just as capable of attacking the EU as was the UKIP. He savaged the Union's
failure to create jobs, saying it was more interested in regulation. The Tories
would campaign for an "enterprise Europe", able to compete with emerging
economic powerhouses across the world.

He also attacked the EU constitution, saying that the charter of EU fundamental
rights would undermine Britain's asylum policy. The Conservatives would fight
for a "flexible Europe" where individual counties would be free to integrate
more closely on certain issues if they wanted to, with other members taking a
back seat.

Mr Howard said that those who believed that sort of Europe was not on offer were
defeatists. "I reject that sort of defeatism. It is on offer from the
Conservative Party. And it makes sense, not only for the countries such as
Britain who do not want to transfer any more power to the EU, but also for the
countries who want to integrate more closely but feel held back by other
members."

Labour issued its own dossier outlining the organisations and people that link
the Conservative Party with the anti-EU party. "The Tories have created the
monster of UKIP by their consistent campaigning against British membership of
the European Union," said Gary Titley, leader of the Labour MEPs.

Last night the UKIP attempted to undermine Mr Howard's Eurosceptic credentials,
saying that he had forced all Tory candidates to sign up to membership of the
federalist European People's Party (EPP) political grouping in Brussels. The
Conservatives said they had reached a deal with the EPP in March that while Tory
MEPs would remain part of the EPP group, they could oppose further integration
and vote against the group's directions on those sorts of issues.

Lord Willoughby de Broke, one of four peers stripped of the Tory whip for
backing the UKIP, last night told Newsnight: "UKIP is demonstrating what I
believe is the situation. Many people in this country, perhaps a majority, have
had it with the EU.

"A vote for UKIP will give a message to all other parties, and the
Conservatives, that the European Union is something that should be looked at
very carefully, and in my opinion we should get out of it."

Simon Jenkins, page 20


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              405 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

Sceptics see policy revision

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 208 words


TORY Eurosceptics claimed yesterday that the rise of the UK Independence Party
would force Michael Howard to adopt a more aggressive stance against the EU at
the next general election.

The Tory leader has previously insisted that public services and the economy
will be the main themes of his campaign, arguing that the European issue is of
only marginal interest to the electorate.

But hardline Eurosceptics believe that the tone of Mr Howard's speech yesterday
showed he was already moving towards their position in an attempt to halt the
UKIP.

Sir Teddy Taylor, Tory MP for Rochford and Southend East, said: "I think Michael
Howard is taking a stronger line but he may be persuaded to go further -he knows
what is happening in public opinion." Richard Shepherd, the MP for
Aldridge-Brownhills, West Midlands, said: "The current crop of opinion polls do
not surprise me, they chime with what we are discovering on the doorstep. It is
difficult for people who believe in a British nation state to find a mainstream
party to vote for. Our position is undoubtedly too gradualist for many."

The UKIP called on Tories to "come out of the closet". Robert Kilroy-Silk, a
UKIP candidate, claimed many Tory MPs shared his views.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              406 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

At last we can cast a proxy vote on Europe

BYLINE: Simon Jenkins

SECTION: Features; 20

LENGTH: 1332 words


I carry no torch for the UK Independence Party. Any movement backed by Robert
Kilroy-Silk, Joan Collins, Max Clifford and the 21st Baron, Lord Willoughby de
Broke, may be dotty but at least has a sense of humour. The one party to which I
subscribe is the Voltaire Party. We meet by candlelight beneath a Westminster
tavern, plotting to defend to the death the democratic rights of all with whom
we disagree. Our only hates are Dr Pangloss and other people's gardens.

We shall toast the UKIP after next week's European elections. Rumour -that is,
an internet poll -reports that the party will get 18 per cent support. In doing
so it could drive the Liberal Democrats into fourth place and rain buckets on
Michael Howard's Tory parade. A single-issue party has entered what amounts to a
single-issue poll and offered a choice, not an echo. Anything can happen.

Democracy craves the unexpected. It begs for an unpredictable ballot, a maverick
candidate, a wild card. European elections are silly elections. They choose no
government, merely a corrupt assembly in a distant country. Elections are based
on madcap constituencies and winning depends on party sponsorship. The whole
shemozzle is an invitation to mischief.

The impact of the UK Independence Party on Tony Blair and his tortured Labour
Party will be no more than another beating about the head with rubber
truncheons.

For Mr Blair these days, democracy is agony. No matter that the European Union
was wildly against the Iraq invasion and a pro-Europe vote might be considered
anti-war. Rage at Mr Blair over Iraq seems certain to induce a furious apathy
among his erstwhile supporters.

For the Tories the impact is more serious. Mr Howard has been looking forward to
next week. He has done well since he took command last autumn, proving that the
Tory party responds by instinct to confident leadership. He has restored
political dialogue with Mr Blair and done to his party what Mr Blair did to his
after 1994.

He has made it electable. This may not be a sufficient condition for victory but
is unquestionably a necessary one.

Next week is Mr Howard's first date with the electorate. He has been all smiles.

Dinner is prepared. A traditional Eurosceptic menu has been chosen -rosbif a la
Duncan Smith, pinkish with a touch of garlic. Mr Howard is meant to emerge from
the encounter no longer just a lucky streak for his party but cock of the walk
nationwide.

The UKIP, despite being mostly composed of Tories, seems set to spoil that date.

Five Tory peers have espoused the new party. Weekend polls indicate that the
Conservatives have lost five percentage points in its favour. Some Tory managers
are close to panic. The outcome may not only be a blow to Mr Howard but may let
Mr Blair off the hook by showing him still in the lead.

Mr Howard tried yesterday to rally support by emphasising his semidetached view
of Britain in Europe. Yet his unique selling proposition, the demand for a
constitutional referendum, has already been conceded by Mr Blair. That
concession turned the spotlight on a different chasm opening to Mr Howard's
Right. This is between his mainstream Euroscepticism and the ever bolder
rejectionists of the UKIP. Nothing so unsettles a Tory leader as attack from the
Right.

The UKIP demands a complete renegotiation of Britain's relations with the
European Union. They look fondly at Norway, Switzerland, the Channel Islands,
even America, and point out that these states are hardly "in the slow lane" as
derided by the pro-Europe lobby. What is so terrible, they ask, about trading
agreements outside the remit of "ever closer political union"? At least the
argument should be made and the choice should be put to the electorate. Anti-EU
parties are moving forward in all member states.

Both Labour and Conservative leaders are victims of their own obsession with
control. They regard every election, national, local or referendum, as party
property. They must have a dog in every fight and a role in every play.
Afterwards they must appear on television and be able to cry hurrah or ya-boo at
the result.

They have hijacked the concept of election and "nationalised" it. In the case of
postal voting, they have done it with staggering incompetence. (Why not ask
local government how to run a postal vote?) Nothing better illustrates such
nationalisation than Europe. Not since the 1970s has the electorate been asked
whether to maintain an alliance which has come to seem ever more irksome. While
the Treaty of Rome was put to the electorate by Harold Wilson in 1975, it was
put only when both Government and Opposition advised approval.

Since then not the Single European Act nor the Maastricht treaty nor the Treaty
of Nice has been referred. Whenever push has come to shove, even the supposedly
sceptical Tories have gazed nervously over their shoulder and denied any desire
to renounce treaties, most of which they negotiated themselves.

Pending a specific referendum, elections to the European Parliament are the
closest the British people get to a debate on withdrawal. Why should they not
take it? No government falls on the result. The vote is for a body that curbs no
executive and cuts no budget. It would be merely "advisory".

If I were a Labour or Conservative strategist I would stand aloof. I would put
up no official candidates and humbly leave the voters to choose for themselves.
They might choose Greens, UKIP, Flat Earthers, Raving Loonies, anyone they like.

Nothing serious would happen. The world would keep turning. Brussels would still
vomit red tape and all expenses would get paid.

As a party leader the last thing I would do is treat such an election as a vote
of confidence in myself. Why should I take it personally? Why withdraw the Tory
whip from UKIP-supporting peers? Why denounce the UKIP as "Little Englanders...

cranks and gadflies"? Let the election be what it is, a proxy vote on Europe.

I have long believed in a "Thai vote" on the ballot paper. This was a proposal
by the Election Commission of Thailand in 2001 for every voting slip to have a
box marked "none of above". Should the box have most ticks, a new election would
be declared in the relevant constituency with "none of the above" allowed to
stand.

At very least the parties would have to choose better candidates. A "Thai vote"
might do for British elections what Thai food has done for pubs, filling them
with eaters of anything but old British stodge.

I am not a Euro-rejectionist. I am a confirmed sceptic. Had the sceptics not
held their ground at Maastricht and against the euro, I have no doubt that
Britain's finances would be worse off now and its public services even less
efficient. Any foreign alliance should be reviewed regularly. Nor should it be
left to a political elite to determine. More and more European democracies are
voting on such treaties, given the seismic impact that they can have on a
political economy.

Britain should do so too. The postwar European adventure, now a third of a
century old, merits a political audit.

For most of that period, both Labour and Tory governments have shut down debate.

They have negotiated each stage of Britain's involvement in Europe like aloof
oligarchs. It is astonishing that a UKIP has taken so long to emerge. Its
"outing" of withdrawal as an option should be welcome to all sides in the
argument. Next week's opportunity to vote on the option, without having to elect
an entire government at the same time, is equally welcome.

Westminster cabalists may deplore such "plebiscitary democracy" and call it mob
rule. But this vote is not for Labour or Conservative, Iraq or George Bush,
train services or hospital waiting lists. To imply so is to dumb down democracy.
The UKIP has offered Britain a rare chance to vote on Britain's relations with
Europe.

Mr Blair and Mr Howard need neither weep nor cheer the outcome. All they need to
do is listen.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              407 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 1, 2004

Howard: We are the only party to trust on Europe

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 461 words


MICHAEL Howard will today claim the Tories represent the 'mainstream majority'
on Europe as he fights off the growing threat of the UK Independence Party.

The Conservative leader will use a keynote speech on Europe to try to blunt the
impact of the UKIP's campaign to pull out of the EU.

Aware of the damage the secessionist party can do to Tory prospects in next
week's European elections, Mr Howard will commit a future Conservative
government to sweeping reforms to modernise Europe.

And he will warn that the UKIP's campaign, and the Labour-LibDem policy of
closer integration, are equally dangerous. He will place the Tories between the
two, pledging to halt further integration and to bring control of some policy
areas, including fisheries and foreign aid, back from Brussels to London.

The UKIP campaign has rattled Conservative strategists, who fear its stark 'pull
out' message will appeal to many Tory voters. A weekend poll put the UKIP on 18
per cent - ahead of the Lib-Dems - with Labour on 23 and the Tories on 31.

There are even signs in other countries that parties opposed to the EU could
hold the balance of power in the European Parliament after the June 10
elections.

Opinion polls in Poland, which became a member state only a month ago, show 17
per cent back the Samoobrona movement of Andrzej Lepper, who once compared the
EU's eastern expansion with the Nazi invasion.

Support for Denmark's Eurosceptic June Movement is running at 16 per cent.

And the Czech Civic Democratic Party has won 33 per cent of popular support.

In the UK, four Conservative peers have been stripped of the party whip after
urging support for the UKIP.

One of them, Baroness Cox, said a 'very large number' of Tories feel the same
way. 'We are the tip of an iceberg,' she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

'I'm not an anti-European, but the time has come to say we can't surrender our
freedom to Brussels.' Tory foreign affairs spokesman Michael Ancram hit back,
saying: 'I suspect from what she has said she has not fully thought through what
UKIP stands for. She was not prepared to say she wants to come out of Europe.'
He cited the comments of UKIP founder Alan Sked, who has urged voters to back
the Tories because he now views the party he created as 'lightweight'.

Mr Ancram said there are three positions in the local and European elections.

'There are those who want to get out of Europe, and that is the UKIP position on
one end of the spectrum,' he told the Radio 4 programme.

'There are those who want to become part of a far more integrated Europe, which
is the Liberal Democrats and the Government on the other part of the spectrum.

'And we are offering a sensible course in Europe.'

END

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MICHAEL HOWARD: PLEDGING A HALT TO FURTHER INTEGRATION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              408 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 01, 2004, Tuesday

Howard tries to halt Tory desertions over Europe

BYLINE: By Toby Helm and Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 753 words

MICHAEL HOWARD will try to halt the desertion of Tory voters to the United
Kingdom Independence Party by claiming today that his Eurosceptic Conservatives
represent the "mainstream majority" of opinion on Europe.

Facing evidence that Tory support for the European elections on June 10 is
haemorrhaging away to UKIP, Mr Howard will say that politicians who want to pull
Britain out of the European Union stand at one extreme of the argument.

He will say that Labour and the Liberal Democrats occupy the other extreme
because they are prepared to hand more power to already over-mighty European
institutions against most people's wishes.

The Tories have been shocked by recent opinion polls suggesting that UKIP, which
has recently recruited colourful characters such as the actress Joan Collins and
Robert Kilroy-Silk, the television presenter, is pulling in voters who think
that Mr Howard is insufficiently robust in his EU policies.

A recent YouGov poll for The Daily Telegraph found that, of those who were "very
likely" to vote, 18 per cent would back UKIP. That would increase the party's
seats in the European Parliament from three to 12.

The Tories' fears about the appeal of UKIP will be heightened by evidence that
hard-line Eurosceptic parties are attracting more support across Europe. There
are signs that parties opposed to the EU could hold the balance of power in the
European Parliament after June 10.

The latest opinion polls in Poland, which joined only last month, give 17 per
cent to the Samoobrona (self-defence) movement of Andrzej Lepper, a firebrand
populist best known for comparing the EU's eastern expansion to the Nazi
invasion of Poland.

In Denmark the Eurosceptic June Movement, which is channelling discontent about
the EU constitution, is at 16 per cent, while the Czech Civic Democratic Party,
led by the "Thatcherite" president, Vaclav Klaus, is running at 33 per cent.

The worry for Mr Howard is that UKIP's advance is splitting the Eurosceptic vote
and eating away at the Tories' slender lead over Labour. If the Tories were to
come second to Labour in the European elections at a time when Tony Blair is
under heavy criticism over Iraq it would be a severe blow to Mr Howard's
leadership.

Yesterday he was urged by John Redwood, the Right-wing former Cabinet minister,
to make clearer how a Tory government would force the EU to renegotiate
Britain's terms of membership.

"I think we should make clearer to people the levers we have," Mr Redwood said.
"We could say, for instance, that we would veto formation of a common foreign
policy until we got the deal we want."

However, he appealed to those Tories thinking of deserting to UKIP to stick with
their party. He said that UKIP's three Euro-MPs had been ineffective in Brussels
and Strasbourg.

"UKIP is becoming a fifth column for federalism, getting in the way of proper
Eurosceptic candidates who could make a difference."

Other Tories cautioned against any move to the Right on Europe.

A senior MP said: "If you do that, you open an almighty row with the
pro-Europeans such as Ken Clarke."

Mr Howard will outline where he thinks the EU is failing and will call for
control of fishing policy and overseas aid to be restored to Britain.

Aides said he would probably not mention UKIP by name but would be severely
critical of those wanting to see Britain leave the EU.

Lady Cox, one of four Tory peers stripped of the Conservative whip at the
weekend after urging people to vote for UKIP, underlined the potential crisis
facing Mr Howard when she said that "a very large number" of Tories felt the
same way.

"We are the tip of an iceberg," she told Radio 4's Today programme.

Another of the peers, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, said that Mr Howard's policy was
completely unconvincing.

"It is like a bank robber walking into a bank and saying: 'Give me your money
and, incidentally, this thing is not loaded.' "

Ian McCartney, the Labour Party chairman, said: "The Tories are running scared
of the UKIP and are moving further to the Eurosceptic Right to counter their
challenge."

Mr Kilroy-Silk said the Tories appeared to be in "panic mode" and said those who
claimed that UKIP would split the sceptic vote were missing the point.

Speaking on Radio 4's The World at One, he said: "Splitting the vote? This is
about people expressing a vote based upon their political convictions.

"Why are we talking about that being a wasted vote? This is the British people
saying we want to come out of Europe."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              409 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 01, 2004, Tuesday

Eurosceptics in line for major breakthrough on polling day

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News; Elections June 10: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 850 words

HARDLINE Eurosceptics are poised for a decisive break-through across swathes of
northern and central Europe in elections next week, shattering the staid
consensus of Brussels.

Once a curiosity item in the European Parliament, they could soon form a
vigorous bloc of their own in alliance with the UK Independence Party, perhaps
even holding the balance of power over key legislation.

Opinion polls in Poland give 17 per cent to the Samoobrona, or Self-Defence
movement, of Andrzej Lepper, a firebrand populist best known for comparing the
EU's eastern expansion with the Nazi invasion of Poland in 1939.

A former boxer and pig farmer, Mr Lepper once brought freight traffic to a halt
at the Polish border by tipping bags of subsidised EU grain across the railway
tracks.

His country is barely a month inside the EU, but he is already threatening
"secession" unless Brussels corrects the inequity of the Common Agricultural
Policy, which rations Polish farmers to a fraction of the subsidies given to
their French, Spanish or British competitors.

Samoobrona alone could win up to 17 of Poland's 50 slots for MEPs under the
country's voting system.

The ultra-conservative League of Polish Families, fresh from burning the newly
hoisted EU flag in a ritual protest against "bureaucratic tyranny", is at 10 per
cent and could win a further eight seats.

Neither party is calling for outright "withdrawal" along the lines of the UKIP,
but their outlook is similar.

Even Poland's "mainstream" parties can be expected to smash plenty of porcelain
in Brussels.

The Law and Justice Party used its debut vote after Poland's EU accession on May
1 to join rebels in a censure motion against the European Commission, rebuking
the EU's elite for refusing to accept any blame for the disappearance of
millions of euros into illegal slush funds at its Eurostat data office.

In the Czech republic, the Civic Democratic Party, led by the "Thatcherite"
president, Vaclav Klaus, is now running at 33 per cent and likely to emerge with
a fistful of the country's 24 seats.

Amid the celebrations over the Czech accession, Mr Klaus doused the enthusiasm
with a series of caustic asides that his country would "cease to exist as an
independent and sovereign entity" inside the EU, rendering his people no more
than "a tiny particle whose voice and influence will be almost zero".

His party will sit with the Tories in the centre-Right European People's Party
(EPP) helping to break the German "federalist" lock over conservative politics
in the EU.

Denmark's June Movement, a Left-leaning group founded in 1992 to protest against
the EU's decision to press ahead with the Maastricht Treaty despite the Danish
"No" vote, is running at 16 per cent in the polls. It claims that undercurrents
of public opinion are moving strongly its way as voters become alarmed about the
European constitution, a project that conveniently culminates at a Brussels
summit one week after the elections.

"It looks like a landslide for us," said Jens-Peter Bonde, their veteran MEP and
currently the doyen of Eurosceptics in Brussels.

The Danish People's Union, which advocates outright secession from the EU, is at
seven per cent and is almost guaranteed a seat.

In Sweden JuneList, a replica of Denmark's June Movement, has just been launched
as a refuge for those on the soft-Left protesting against the pro-Brussels
"betrayal" of the ruling Social Democrats.

Ireland is likely to elect its first Sinn Fein MEP on a campaign to halt the
EU's militarist ambitions.

Even the Dutch, once card-carrying members of the EU's federalist camp, are
flirting with revolt.

The EU whistle-blower Paul Van Buitenen, who triggered the mass resignation of
the Santer Commission in 1999, is campaigning at the head of Europa Transparant,
a new coalition pledging to end rampant fraud in Brussels.

On a separate track - but also deeply hostile to the EU elites - a slew of
vibrant Right-wing nationalists and folk groups are excoriating "meddling
Eurocrats" in their campaign leaflets.

They include the Danish People's Party, the Flemish Vlaams Blok, Jorg Haider's
Freedom Party in Austria, Umberto Bossi's Northern League in Italy and Jean-
Marie Le Pen's National Front in France.

The French, Italian, Spanish and Scandinavian Communists are fighting their own
war against Brussels, denouncing the EU as the Trojan Horse of Anglo-Saxon
capitalism.

The great unknown is when, or if, a distinctive form of Gallic Euroscepticism
simmering across much of "La France Profonde" will finally boil over. Probably
not in June 2004.

The French "souverainistes" are splintered, limiting their chances in a system
where the rules have just been changed to handicap small parties. Led by two
ageing rivals, Philippe de Villiers and Charles Pasqua, they seem incapable of
capturing the mood of anti-Brussels disenchantment spreading among French youth.

But if turnout falls below 50 per cent, as predicted by the latest EU-wide poll,
even France's eurosceptiques could be occupying an entire row of seats in
Strasbourg for the next five years.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              410 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 01, 2004, Tuesday

Glad to be gadfly

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 19

LENGTH: 162 words

SIR - So Michael Howard thinks that people supporting the United Kingdom
Independence Party are "cranks and political gadflies" (report, May 31).

I resigned my Conservative Party membership in frustration at the half-and-half
party policy on Europe and in recent weeks have been working hard delivering
UKIP literature, although I have not become a party member.

What Mr Howard does not realise - or is beginning to realise and it is worrying
him - is that a large number of traditional Conservative supporters, from the
illustrious Baroness Cox in London down to this humble person in Lincolnshire,
are seeing this European election as a means of saying that we want Britain to
withdraw from the European Union and become again an independent sovereign
nation, trading freely with other countries.

If the UKIP picks up a sizeable vote, it will not be an anti-Conservative vote
but a message to say party policy must change.

Martin Middlebrook

Boston, Lincs

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              411 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 01, 2004, Tuesday

Glad to be gadfly

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 19

LENGTH: 216 words

SIR- Conservative MEPs have been the leading challengers of the EU's drive
towards further political integration. We are the foremost opponents of the
European Constitution; oppose British entry to the euro; fight against the
welter of EU regulations that damage British business; and I have personally led
the opposition to EU meddling in defence.

Clearly, therefore, we oppose the federalist agenda of the European People's
Party and it is a blatant calumny to suggest the opposite (Letters, May 28). But
I am sure readers are too discerning to be taken in by a weird party such as
UKIP, whose main contribution is to act as handmaiden to Tony Blair's purpose of
weakening the Conservative vote, enabling him to take Britain deeper into a
European state and to continue the ruination of our country.

It should be noted that UKIP MEPs have been absent for every key vote on the EU
budget in the European Parliament since being elected. When they do remember to
vote, they vote for things like removing the British opt-out from the Working
Time Directive. If voters are serious in wanting to put the EU project into
reverse and to signal their disapproval of the Blair Government, they need to
put Britain first and vote Conservative.

Geoffrey Van Orden MEP (Cons)

Chelmsford, Essex

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              412 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 1, 2004

LIB DEMS HEAD FOR UK IP ROUT

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 543 words


THE anti-Brussels UK Independence Party is heading for a stunning result in the
European elections and is on course to beat the Lib Dems into fourth place, a
new poll revealed last night.

UKIP candidate Robert Kilroy-Silk hailed the results of the YouGov poll as the
three main parties in British politics were plunged into disarray by a "people's
uprising" against the power of unelected Brussels bureaucrats. Lib Dems
privately warned the position of leader Charles Kennedy would come under renewed
scrutiny if UKIP beats them, while Conservatives began demanding a much tougher
line against a federal Europe from party leader Michael Howard.

And Labour insiders admitted the surge in anti-Brussels sentiment in the country
would make it far harder for Tony Blair to win a referendum on the proposed EU
constitution.

The YouGov poll of more than 2,000 people was taken late last week and showed
that of those most likely to vote in the European elections on June 10, the
Conservatives will gain 27 per cent support, Labour 23 per cent, UKIP 21 per
cent, the pro-Brussels Lib Dems just 16 per cent and the Greens six per cent.

Sunday Express columnist Mr KilroySilk, who is standing as UKIP candidate in the
East Midlands, described the result as "phenomenal" and predicted his party's
campaigning momentum could produce an even better result than indicated by the
YouGov figures.

The former Labour MP said he and his wife Jan recognised a "breakthrough" moment
was looming for UKIP.

"This accords with the feedback I am getting as a candidate on the ground. On
Saturday we were campaigning in the towns of Lincolnshire and we had a brilliant
response.

"Jan and I were walking back to the car park and she looked at me and grinned
and said 'you have cracked it'.

"I replied 'we are in the 20 per cents at least'. I am a pretty experienced
campaigner from my days as an MP and you can tell when people are just being
polite or when they really mean they will back you, " said Mr Kilroy-Silk. "I
think we are going to beat the Liberal Democrats."

Labour officially claimed the UKIP surge was a bigger problem for the Tories.
But privately senior party figures acknowledge it presents a formidable
challenge for the pro-EU Mr Blair.

Labour chairman Ian McCartney claimed: "The Tories are running scared of UKIP
and are moving further to the Euro sceptic right to counter their challenge."

Mr Howard authorised Tory candidates to denounce UKIP candidates as "cranks and
political gadflies". But that approach immediately earned a rebuke from former
Tory Cabinet minister John Redwood who said: "I do not agree with calling people
silly names. I would agree with engaging people on the issues. I think Mr
Kilroy-Silk and his supporters are well intentioned." He called for Mr Howard to
underline the Tories' Euro sceptic credentials in a speech planned for today.

But party sources indicated it would be "moderate mainstream". One said:

"On the one hand there is UKIP which wants us out of Europe, on the other is
Tony Blair and Charles Kennedy who would hand new powers to Brussels.

"The Conservative Party believes, along with the great majority of the British
people, in being in Europe but not run by Europe."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              413 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 1, 2004

Labour and UKIP step up pressure on Howard

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 402 words


Michael Howard was last night caught in a pincer movement over Europe as Labour
challenged him to stand up to the Eurosceptism of the UK Independence party, and
UKIP itself warned the Tory leader it intended to drive him in the opposite
direction.

A leaked Conservative briefing paper shows Mr Howard advising activists to
dismiss UKIP as "Little Englanders" and "cranks and political gadflies",
name-calling tactics which were denounced yesterday by UKIP's new media star,
Robert Kilroy-Silk.

With two weeks to polling day, UKIP is gaining ground and has overtaken the
Liberal Democrats in some polling. Labour is set to react to this advance by
bestowing the epithet of "Tory Militant Tendency" on UKIP.

Yesterday UKIP was called "a fifth column for federalism" by John Redwood, the
Tory former cabinet minister, who warned it would serve only to split the
Eurosceptic vote.

"This is the Tory Party in panic mode isn't it?" retorted Mr Kilroy-Silk on
Radio 4's World this Weekend.

Mr Kilroy-Silk explained that UKIP would force Mr Howard to "toughen up" his
policy on Europe and that "Tony Blair will follow suit".

But the Europe minister, Denis MacShane, said that Mr Howard was "reaping what
he has sown in making antiEuropeanism the dominant Tory ideology".

Mr Howard will make a speech in Southampton today attacking Labour and Liberal
Democrats as people seeking to take Britain further into Europe, and UKIP for
wanting to take Britain out. Only the Tories offer "the sensible middle way", he
will claim.

Labour strategists are gleeful Mr Blair's referendum on the EU constitution,
derided as a feeble U-turn, has "thrown the Conservatives into confusion and
exposed their differences".

Labour rubbed home its point yesterday by highlighting a letter, published by
the Freedom Association, in which its chairman, Chris Gill, explains why he will
not be voting Tory. Yet three shadow ministers - John Bercow, Gerald Howarth and
Chris Chope - are members of the association's council. Mr Gill says: "I and
countless other freeborn Britons want out of this evil (EU) empire."

So do Lady Cox and Lord Pearson, both of whom lost the Tory whip for backing
UKIP. "We are the tip of an iceberg" of pro-UKIP feeling among Tory voters, she
claimed yesterday.

Labour all-black shortlists, page 7

Zoe Williams, page 17

The Editor, page 20

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              414 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 1, 2004

Blair in a quandary over Prodi's successor

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 564 words


Tony Blair is still looking for a candidate to back for the post of president of
the European commission, just two weeks before a crucial EU summit in Brussels.

Mr Blair and his major European allies know that Downing Street has an informal
veto over the successor to Romano Prodi, the Blair-backed Italian professor who
has proved disappointing in office.

The current frontrunner, Guy Verhofstadt, Belgium's prime minister, personally
appealed to Mr Blair for support last week.

Mr Verhofstadt has the enthusiastic backing of President Jacques Chirac of
France, whose agenda - that of the European federalists who are also vocally
anti-American - critics say he promotes.

Little known in Britain, the Flemish-speaking Liberal could easily become a
hate-figure for Eurosceptics if he gets the job at the summit on June 17-18.

"It's still not certain. He's not really our kind of guy, but there's no sense
of him being a disaster," said one No 10 official after Mr Verhofstadt met Mr
Blair last Tuesday.

"It's nothing personal, but the prime minister remains unpersuaded. As things
stand, he's still looking to an alternative candidate," said another Blair
adviser.

Germany's chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, is believed to have been lined up to
support Mr Verhofstadt, leaving Mr Blair, the last member of the "big three",
with the veto.

But such a move would come at a price. Britain will be seeking to preserve its
"red line" negotiating position on the draft EU constitution and horse-trading
is inevitable.

"I know it's barely two weeks away, but by European standards it's still early
days," said the Blair adviser.

Though a decision on the commission job could be postponed, it could not be
delayed for long, since all 25 member states are jockeying for a plum portfolio
and the new team must be in place by November.

Mr Blair's problems are two-fold. Europe is again a hot domestic issue: his
decision to promise a referendum on a constitution has prompted competitive
Eurosceptic bidding on the right. If Labour performs badly in this month's
European elections - and the UK Independence party does well - pressure to veto
Mr Verhofstadt will grow.

No 10's second problem is that there are plenty of candidates for the EU's most
important job, but none who commands consensus.

Antonio Vitorino, the Portuguese EU commissioner for justice, is widely admired
and very clever. At a private dinner for ministers for Europe, including
Britain's Denis MacShane, seven out of 14 of those present voted for him.

Not even Belgian's minister voted for Mr Verhofstadt.

Anders-Fogh Rasmussen, the Danish prime minister, got three votes, though he is
vehemently anti-Turkish, a sensitive EU issue.

As a Social Democrat likely to face a centre-right European parliament, Mr
Vitorino would be blocked.

Pascal Lamy, the brilliant French trade commissioner, would also be blackballed
by Mr Chirac: he is a Socialist.

Chris Patten, Britain's pro-EU Tory commissioner, has been sounded out, but
would not readily let his name go forward unless he could be fairly sure of
victory. In French opinion, Britain's place outside the eurozone is also a fatal
drawback to appointing Mr Patten.

Pat Cox, the Irish president of the European parliament, has supporters, but his
country's prime minister, Bertie Ahern, is not among them.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              415 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

POLITICS: HOWARD ATTACKS EXTREMIST' UKIP AS POLL FEARS GROW

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT Michael Howard: His actions mark
growing alarm among Tories about the UKIP Toby Madden

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 642 words


MICHAEL HOWARD will today reflect growing alarm in Tory high command over the
surge in support for the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) with a
stinging attack on it as an "extremist" organisation.

The fiercely anti-European party is buoyant after winning the backing of 12
peers - including four who have now been stripped of the Tory whip - and opinion
polls suggested it could win up to a dozen seats in next week's European
elections.

Anxiety is building in Conservative Central Office that the party could be the
main victim of the UKIP's electoral success, undermining the Tories' attempt to
land a heavy blow on Labour. A Tory briefing paper leaked yesterday denounced
the UKIP as "cranks and political gadflies" and Mr Howard is to return to the
theme in a speech on Europe today.

He will say that the Tories are the only party in tune with sensible mainstream
opinion on Europe in this country and will contrast that with the extreme
opinions of UKIP, which wants to leave the European Union altogether, and Labour
and the Liberal Democrats, whom he will portray as keen to surrender power to
Brussels.

John Redwood, a former Conservative cabinet minister, expressed concern
yesterday over the stridency of the "cranks and gadflies" attack on the UKIP.

He said: "I don't agree with calling people silly names and I do believe in
engaging on the issues." But he was scathing about the UKIP, denouncing it for
"getting in the way of proper Eurosceptic candidates who could make a
difference".

But Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former chat-show host and UKIP candidate retorted:
"This is the Tory party in panic mode." He told the BBC's World at One
programme: "Splitting the vote? This is about people expressing a vote based
upon their political convictions. Now why are we demeaning that? Why are we
talking about that being a wasted vote? It is the British people voting for
something they want to vote for. This is the British people saying we want to
come out of Europe."

The potential for the subject of Europe to reopen Tory faultlines the leadership
hoped had closed was underlined yesterday by Baroness Cox, one of the peers to
lose the whip after urging voters to back UKIP. She told BBC Radio 4's Today
programme: "I'm not an anti-European but the time has come to say we can't
surrender our freedom to Brussels and that for me overrides every party
political issue." She said "a very large number" of Conservatives shared her
opinion, adding that the rebel peers were "the tip of an iceberg".

Lord Pearson, another rebel, said of Mr Howard's Europe policy: "It's like a
bank robber walking into a bank and saying Give me your money and, incidentally,
this thing's not loaded'."

However, Michael Ancram, the shadow Foreign Secretary, said: "There are those
who want to get out of Europe and that is the UKIP position on one end of the
spectrum.

"There are those who want to become part of a far more integrated Europe, which
is the Liberal Democrats and the Government on the other part of the spectrum."

Ian McCartney, the Labour Party's chairman, said: "The Tories are running scared
of the UKIP and are moving further to the Eurosceptic right to counter their
challenge.

"Michael Howard makes no secret of the fact that he wants to axe European
protection for workers' rights and paid holidays," he said.

"It is hard-working families who would pay the price of the Tories' European
panic."

An opinion poll last week put the UKIP on 18 per cent, beating the Liberal
Democrats into fourth place. The Conservatives, who had previously been ahead in
surveys, were running neck and neck with Labour. With support on that scale,
UKIP could increase its representation in the European Parliament from three
seats to 12 and enable it to break out of its heartland in the South-west.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              416 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

HOWARD: TORIES REPRESENT THE MAINSTREAM ON EUROPE

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT Michael Howard: His actions mark
growing alarm among Tories about the UKIP Toby Madden

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 641 words


MICHAEL HOWARD will today reflect growing alarm in Tory high command over the
surge in support for the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) with a
stinging attack on it as an "extremist" organisation.

The fiercely anti-European party is buoyant after winning the backing of 12
peers - including four who have now been stripped of the Tory whip - and opinion
polls suggested it could win up to a dozen seats in next week's European
elections.

Anxiety is building in Conservative Central Office that the party could be the
main victim of the UKIP's electoral success, undermining the Tories' attempt to
land a heavy blow on Labour. A Tory briefing paper leaked yesterday denounced
the UKIP as "cranks and political gadflies" and Mr Howard is to return to the
theme in a speech on Europe today.

He will say that the Tories are the only party in tune with sensible mainstream
opinion on Europe in this country and will contrast that with the extreme
opinions of UKIP, which wants to leave the European Union altogether, and Labour
and the Liberal Democrats, whom he will portray as keen to surrender power to
Brussels.

John Redwood, a former Conservative cabinet minister, expressed concern
yesterday over the stridency of the "cranks and gadflies" attack on the UKIP.

He said: "I don't agree with calling people silly names and I do believe in
engaging on the issues." But he was scathing about the UKIP, denouncing it for
"getting in the way of proper Eurosceptic candidates who could make a
difference".

But Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former chat-show host and UKIP candidate retorted:
"This is the Tory party in panic mode." He told the BBC's World at One
programme: "Splitting the vote? This is about people expressing a vote based
upon their political convictions. Now why are we demeaning that? Why are we
talking about that being a wasted vote? It is the British people voting for
something they want to vote for. This is the British people saying we want to
come out of Europe."

The potential for the subject of Europe to reopen Tory faultlines the leadership
hoped had closed was underlined yesterday by Baroness Cox, one of the peers to
lose the whip after urging voters to back UKIP. She told BBC Radio 4's Today
programme: "I'm not an anti-European but the time has come to say we can't
surrender our freedom to Brussels and that for me overrides every party
political issue." She said "a very large number" of Conservatives shared her
opinion, adding that the rebel peers were "the tip of an iceberg".

Lord Pearson, another rebel, said of Mr Howard's Europe policy: "It's like a
bank robber walking into a bank and saying Give me your money and, incidentally,
this thing's not loaded'."

However, Michael Ancram, the shadow Foreign Secretary, said: "There are those
who want to get out of Europe and that is the UKIP position on one end of the
spectrum.

"There are those who want to become part of a far more integrated Europe, which
is the Liberal Democrats and the Government on the other part of the spectrum."

Ian McCartney, the Labour Party's chairman, said: "The Tories are running scared
of the UKIP and are moving further to the Eurosceptic right to counter their
challenge.

"Michael Howard is making no secret of the fact that he wants to axe European
protection for workers' rights and paid holidays.

"It is hard-working families who would pay the price of the Tories' European
panic."

An opinion poll last week put the UKIP on 18 per cent, beating the Liberal
Democrats into fourth place. The Conservatives, who had previously been ahead in
surveys, were running neck and neck with Labour. With support on that scale,
UKIP could increase its representation in the European Parliament from three
seats to 12 and enable it to break out of its heartland in the south-west.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              417 of 421 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

DEAR MIRROR: YOU TEXT

BYLINE: MARCO RAMONE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 19 words


YOU miss the point about UKIP. We don't hate the EU - vive la difference!

Marco Ramone Truro, Cornwall

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              418 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 1, 2004

EU HATERS UP IN POLL

LENGTH: 83 words


LABOUR and the Tories are losing votes to the UK Independence Party, a poll
revealed yesterday.

UKIP, which wants to quit the EU, have risen six per cent to 18 since
campaigning for the Euro elections began.

The Lib Dems could be nudged into FOURTH according to the figures.

Labour and the Tories both dropped four points - to 28 and 26 - said the YouGov
survey commissioned by UKIP.

Tory leader Michael Howard will attack the EU today to dent the UKIP's rise in
popularity.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              419 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

Tories are rattled by growing support for UKIP

BYLINE: Greg Hurst, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 662 words


MICHAEL HOWARD will try to wrest the Eurosceptic mantle from the UK Independence
Party today after apparently being caught off-guard by its series of publicity
coups in the election campaign.

Officials said the Conservative leader would use a speech at a Hampshire hotel
to call for change in the European Union, making it more modern and flexible,
doing less but doing it better.

Even if he succeeds in persuading Tory supporters against flirting with UKIP as
a protest vote in the European elections, it may be too late in regions using
all-postal ballots.

The UKIP, long regarded as a rag-bag alliance of bickering individuals,
surprised everybody with a classically calibrated campaign that has become the
talking point of the election. As with the dance of the seven veils, the party
has gradually captured attention by revealing more flesh little by tantalising
little.

First Dick Morris, former polling strategist to Bill Clinton, came aboard to
offer polling advice. Then followed the boast of a £2 million war chest making
the UKIP the highest spenders of the campaign, chiefly for posters and leaflets,
although thus far it has refused to name its backers and declared just £250,000
in donor income last quarter.

Next came Robert Kilroy-Silk, ousteed daytime television presenter and one time
Labour MP, hugging his way through the East Midlands as a UKIP candidate.

Before long Joan Collins joined him on the campaign trail, adding the glamour
and extra reach of the world of soap opera, although she admitted never having
voted in a British election. Two opinion polls, from the internet polling
company YouGov, gave the party its next boost, one putting the UKIP on 14 per
cent and 18 per cent among those certain to vote, and another suggesting that
Tory support was slipping.

The latter coincided with the defection into the UKIP camp of five Tory peers,
although one backtracked at the threat of losing the Conservative whip, plus
seven crossbenchers.

Although the Tory peers Lords Pearson of Rannoch, Willoughby de Broke, Stevens
of Ludgate and Baroness Cox talked of lending the UKIP their vote only for the
European elections, it reignited Conservative divisions over Europe.

First signs of a concerted publicity strategy emerged earlier in the year when
Elizabeth Winkfield, a Devon pensioner facing jail for refusing to pay her
council tax became a cause celebre until her links emerged to both the UKIP and
Max Clifford, the celebrity publicist behind Tory sleaze scandals of the 1990s.

Shortly beforehand, the UKIP published a little- noticed account of a strategy
weekend in Torbay at which Dick Morris presented a simple analysis: Many voters
were "anti-EU", not so many were aware of the UKIP.

The task, he told them, was simply to bring these people who were already
hostile to the EU "on to the UKIP bandwagon". They should not sell an anti-EU
message but a pro-UKIP one, he said, and not spend any time winning new converts
to the cause.

Max Clifford, those present were told, would work for the UKIP "at no cost to
the party".

To date the strategy seems to have been remarkably successful, although senior
Labour party figures and even some Conservative officials have suggested that
Tony Blair's decision to offer a referendum on Europe's constitution may have
helped.

By removing an issue on which Eurosceptics found common cause -the call for a
referendum -the focus shifted to details of European policy and then splits in
Conservative ranks, one Labour official claimed yesterday.

In another sign of disunity, Christopher Gill, the former Tory MP and chairman
of the Freedom Association, has also endorsed the UKIP.

Mr Gill, in an open letter to members, said this was the first time in his life
he would not vote Conservative. Without naming the UKIP, he said those opposed
to European integration "have no alternative other than to cast their votes in
other directions".


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              420 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

Party message strikes a chord at county show

BYLINE: Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 411 words


Plain speaking defies claims of secret agenda, Gabriel Rozenberg reports

SHEEPDOG displays, farmers' markets and bouncy castles: the Surrey County Show
is just the sort of event where one might expect to find a poster reading, "Your
Britain -Fight For It Now!"

In a green-and-white-striped tent bedecked with Union Jacks, Nigel Farage, MEP,
of the UK Independence Party, was trying to exhort the visitors to the Bank
Holiday agricultural event in Guildford to do just that.

Dressed in a double-breasted navy suit, rosette and Panama hat, he called on
passers-by to sign his petition. "It says we want a referendum not only on
whether to sign the European constitution or not, but to have one on 'in or out'
of the European Union," he said.

Conservatives claim that UKIP supporters do not know the party's full agenda of
withdrawal from the EU. But if the UKIP is trying to keep its full policies
secret it was going the wrong way about it at Guildford yesterday. Large posters
read: "Say NO to European Union." Leaflets read "Vote UKIP: the only party
saying no to the EU" and "Say No to Brussels".

Mr Farage was keen to explain their withdrawal agenda. "It's all moved on," he
told one visitor. "We're the only party standing up and saying 'No, we don't
want this, we want free trade but we don't want membership of the European
Union'."

One man demanded: "Why should I vote for you and not the BNP?" The MEP replied
quickly: "Fair question. Because we are a completely different party with
different views and different goals.

We are non-racist and non-sectarian."

Guildford is the sort of area the Tories must win back if they have any hope of
government. Indeed, it comes as a shock to remember that it is now a Liberal
Democrat area.

Almost everyone at the stall to whom The Times spoke yesterday said the UKIP
stood for "getting out". It was a message few had any complaints about.

"They're not anti-Europe but they don't believe we should be in Europe any more,
which is what I believe," said Gavin Atkinson, 35. "We're far closer to the US.

"We need to keep our independence," said Ian Wady, 48, an antiques dealer. "We
don't need their (European nations') help and I don't think they'd help us at
the end of the day."

The worry for all mainstream parties, on the evidence from yesterday's show,
might not be that people have failed to understand what the UKIP stands for, but
that they do -and support it.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              421 of 421 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

Tory plans to celebrate victory at the second attempt

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 1068 words


As campaigning starts in earnest to elect London's mayor, three familiar names
lead the field

STEVE NORRIS not only talks the big talk in his bid for London mayor, he can do
so in a variety of languages and in different accents.

In the course of one day's hectic campaigning, the Conservative candidate
modulates his slight Liverpool twang into well-worn soundbites for television
interviews, becomes fluent in the audience's jargon when speaking to groups of
businessmen, police and architects, has time to coo "ma cherie" to his wife on
the phone, and ends with a mean impression of Ken Livingstone, the incumbent
Labour candidate.

"Ah dan't have the power," he said in an exaggerated Cockney accent, mocking his
rival's nasal voice and alleged lack of success in tackling the capital's crime
levels, the central issue of all the main contenders' campaigns. Mr Norris
predicts great things for himself in the election on June 10, after coming
second last time.

"I'm going to win. This has been four years in the making, and I get quite an
airy feeling now it's less than two weeks away," he said, while being driven
from one engagement to another.

"After June 10 people are going to say, 'We should have seen this coming'," he
said. After a phone call to his wife, he joked: "Emma's getting a bit worried
because she knows we're going to win now."

All this is delivered in the confident charm that is ascribed to his days as a
car salesman, amassing his wealth in car dealerships before he became a
transport minister in the early 1990s. But he uses language extremely carefully,
especially when it comes to his decision last year to become non-executive
chairman of Jarvis, the embattled services group connected with the Potters Bar
rail crash.

It is one of his 15 company appointments, mainly in transport-related companies.

In the green room before an interview on Sky he is asked by The Times if he
would resign from them all if he became mayor.

"Effectively, yes," he said. Does that mean he would retain some? "It's not
illegal to earn money as a mayor, as far as I know, I've not bothered to look
into it," he said. "But of course if there is any conflict of interest, I would
give them up. Absolutely."

As for Jarvis, he said: "It has no effect on voters at all. It's never mentioned
by people on the streets, only by journalists, and I don't think people look to
the press for political opinions, they get their impression from TV and radio."

Live on air, the television interviewer confronts him with two e-mails from
viewers asking him about connections with Jarvis. He brushes this off in the car
afterwards, but just for a moment his tone loses its assurance. "I asked them
about those e-mails. They had three in total, all from out of London. Jarvis is
not an issue, you'll see that when we win," he said.

Although he has pledged to give up his role in Jarvis if elected, would it not
have been easier for him not to have taken it in the first place?

"That's a stupid question. Would it have been easier if I'd been born better
looking? Would it be easier for Simon Hughes to stop being an MP? So what if the
press latch on to this, if not this they would only latch on to something else,"
he said.

"If I say 'I resign' and go into my hairshirt, that would not be a wise
reaction."

Next stop is a meeting organised by the Richmond Chamber of Commerce in West
London. His double-decker campaign bus, which begins touring today, will almost
exclusively visit the London suburbs held by the Conservatives or Liberal
Democrats. It will ignore the Central London Labour strongholds. Mr Norris's
team believe that they can win even if behind in the polls by getting most of
the second preference votes of those voting for Mr Hughes.

The car was greeted by Tony Norris, Mr Norris's 29-year-old son. At 59, Mr
Norris also has a six-year-old son by his current wife. Tony has taken a month
off work as a solicitor to be the "forward man" for his father, making sure
everything is in place before he arrives. "I'm the cabaret," said Tony, his
father playfully punching him on the arm.

Mr Norris's performance at the meeting is impressive if not only for the fact
that after a brief introduction to 15 local business owners, he remembers each
of their names. He also targets answers to suit their needs.

"Yes Maurice," he said in response to a question from a blind man, before giving
a detailed answer on his transport policy for the disabled.

Next stop is the Brentford police station, where he confidently slips into
insider jargon with staff.

How often, he asked them, do the "PCSOs" use their "Asbos"? (police and
community support officers applying the anti-social behaviour order). Norris has
been highly critical of the management of the Metropolitan Police, and the
officers are friendly but professionally reserved on their opinion of the
candidate.

Mr Norris and Mr Livingstone are both trying to identify themselves with Rudolph
Giuliani, the New York Mayor who dramatically reduced crime: Mr Norris's
campaign slogan is "If New York's Mayor can cut crime, why can't London's?"
Whose impersonation of Giuliani is better?

"Ken talks about Giuliani, but truthfully he's not very fond of him," said Mr
Norris. "All he does about it is talk."

Seven days of news from the capital www.timesonline.co.uk/london

STEVE NORRIS

Reduce crime by more hands-on management of Metropolitan Police

Scrap congestion charge; improve traffic flow using technology

Tube trains until 3am Fridays and Saturdays

Retain London's status as an international business capital

Training, low-cost housing for less well-off

ALSO ON THE BALLOT

The other candidates are: Lindsey German (Respect); Ram Gidoomal (Christian
Peoples Alliance); Darren Johnson (Green Party); Julian Leppert (British
National Party); Frank Maloney (UK Independence Party); Dr Tammy Nagalingam
(Ind); Lorna Reid (Independent Working Class Association)

Electors have two voters in the mayoral ballot under the supplementary vote
system: a first choice and second preference, redistributed if the first is
eliminated

Voters in the capital will also elect 25 members to the London Assembly

Each elector has two votes for the London Assembly: one for a candidate for the
14 constituency members and another for 11 London-wide members


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
